{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green128\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Let lower support for 
\f1 \cf2 $X_1$ be $X_1^L<0$
\f0 \cf0 ; 
\f1 \cf2 $X_2$
\f0 \cf0  remains non-{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A6B66ED3-1E93-41F1-BEDE-12FB856E5DF8"}}{\fldrslt negative.}}  Consider the entrepreneur of a viable firm who obtained a loan at face value 
\f1 \cf2 $D_1$
\f0 \cf0  and earned 
\f1 \cf2 $X_1<0$
\f0 \cf0  in time 1.  To continue operating, he must finance first period losses. I assume loans taken out in this manner are legally conferred seniority to all existing debt but obligations in the original debt contract award existing creditors right of first refusal.\
Allowing super-senior financing prevents creditors from blocking new loans---should existing debt holders refuse, the borrower can turn to the wider lending market. Thus, creditors evaluate the new loans independent of their previous stake. They extend one if there exists some 
\f1 \cf2 $D_2$
\f0 \cf0  such that\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf2 $$!e[p1equation12]\\EE_1\\l[\\min\\\{D_2, X_2+K_2\\\}\\r]=-X_1.e!$$
\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation12)
\f0 \cf0  is increasing in 
\f1 \cf2 $D_2$
\f0 \cf0 . 
\f1 \cf2 $D_2$
\f0 \cf0  exists if and only if 
\f1 \cf2 $-X_1\\le\\ol X_2+K_2$
\f0 \cf0 , where 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol X_2$
\f0 \cf0  is the expected value of 
\f1 \cf2 $X_2$
\f0 \cf0 . If 
\f1 \cf2 $D_2$
\f0 \cf0  does not exist for the original creditor, it does not exist for any creditor. Without necessary financing, the firm is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://DF7EB50E-8F93-4365-9388-350A4D55355B"}}{\fldrslt liquidated.}}\
When evaluating the original loan at time 0, the entrepreneur expects 
\f1 \cf2 $D_1$
\f0 \cf0  when 
\f1 \cf2 $D_1\\le X_1$
\f0 \cf0 . If 
\f1 \cf2 $X_1$
\f0 \cf0  falls below that but above 0, the project is insolvent. In the absence of bankruptcy costs, workout negotiations favour the creditor since reorganisation is equivalent to continuation and liquidation guarantees recovery of his initial investment; without loss of generality I assume both parties agree to continue operating the firm but do not otherwise modify the original loan contract. Creditor returns are\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$\\EE_1\\l[\\min\\\{D_1,X_1+X_2+K_2\\\}\\r].$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 If 
\f1 \cf2 $X_1$
\f0 \cf0  is less than 0 but more than 
\f1 \cf2 $-(\\ol X_2+K_2)$
\f0 \cf0 , the creditor loans 
\f1 \cf2 $-X_1$
\f0 \cf0  per 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation12)
\f0 \cf0 . His expected returns at time 1 are\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$\\EE_1\\l[\\min\\\{D_1+D_2,X_2+K_2\\\}\\r]+X_1.$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 When 
\f1 \cf2 $X_1$
\f0 \cf0  falls below 
\f1 \cf2 $-(\\ol X_2+K_2)$
\f0 \cf0  the project is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://287CD250-7577-4D11-B2AE-C265D86C0785"}}{\fldrslt liquidated.}} Since the firm is deemed "viable", 
\f1 \cf2 $K_0<-(\\ol X_2+K_2)$
\f0 \cf0 . The creditor earns nothing.\
In every scenario, creditor returns increase in 
\f1 \cf2 $D_1$
\f0 \cf0 . Their supremum occurs at the limit as 
\f1 \cf2 $D_1$
\f0 \cf0  tends to infinity, *
\i i.e.
\i0 *,\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$!e[p1equation13]\\ol X_1+\\ol X_2+K_2,e!$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0  where 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol X_1$
\f0 \cf0  is the expected value of 
\f1 \cf2 $X_1$
\f0 \cf0 . Since the firm is viable, 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation13)
\f0 \cf0  is more than 
\f1 \cf2 $K_0$
\f0 \cf0 . Applying similar arguments used to prove 
\f1 \cf3 [](#prop2)
\f0 \cf0 , a 
\f1 \cf2 $D_1$
\f0 \cf0  exists that satisfies 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0=K_0$
\f0 \cf0 . The lending conditions for viable firms are not fundamentally altered when bankruptcy law allows super-senior financing.}