{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset204 PTMono-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red255\green128\blue0;\red252\green226\blue33;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;\cssrgb\c99200\c89800\c16100;
}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 [](#figure1)
\f1 \cf0  displays results from an ordinary least squares regression on the Dale-Chall score; regressors are: (i) ratio of female co-authors; (ii) dummies for each primary *
\i JEL
\i0 * code; (iii) interactions from (i) and (ii); (iv) controls for editor, journal, year, institution and English fluency; and (v) quality controls---citation count and 
\f0 \cf3 $\\text\{max. \}T_j$
\f1 \cf0  fixed {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C658A260-F04B-49DF-B879-CB8553949DF4"}}{\fldrslt effects.}} Again, due to small samples---particularly of female authors---
\f0 \cf2 [](#figure1)
\f1 \cf0  includes 561 articles from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1EE5D32B-F620-4218-9F52-84C1AC366F47"}}{\fldrslt *
\i AER Papers & Proceedings
\i0 *.}}\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs18 \cf4 <!--\\input\{$HOME/Dropbox/Readability/draft/tex/fixed/figure1\}-->\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf0 The pink vertical line in 
\f0 \cf2 [](#figure1)
\f1 \cf0 's left-hand graph is the marginal effect of female authorship at the mean. Its estimate coincides with results in 
\f0 \cf2 [](#table4)
\f1 \cf0 ---women's papers require six fewer weeks of schooling to understand---and is highly significant. Points reflect marginal effects across *
\i JEL
\i0 * classification; bars represent 90 percent confidence intervals from standard errors clustered by editor.\
Women earn higher marks for clarity in 11 out of 15 categories; only three are at least weakly significant: Q (Agricultural and Natural Resource Economics; Environmental and Ecological Economics), N (Economic History), and J (Labour Economics). Men may be better writers in C (Mathematical and Quantitative Methods), L (Industrial Organisation), O (Economic Development, Innovation, Technological Change, and Growth) and H (Public Economics); none, however, are statistically different from zero. 
\f0 \cf2 [](#figure1)
\f1 \cf0 's right-hand graph displays coefficients from interacting the ratio of female co-authors with each *
\i JEL
\i0 * code. Q and N are significantly above the mean, O and H significantly below it. Remaining categories are not statistically different from the mean effect.\
In general, sample sizes are small and estimates imprecise---only Labour Economics and Microeconomics contain more than 100 papers written only by women (the others average 35). Nevertheless, 
\f0 \cf2 [](#figure1)
\f1 \cf0  suggests two things. First, the mostly insignificant interaction terms indicate outlier fields are probably not driving journals' gender readability gap---nor is any specific field bucking the trend. Second, the number of women in a field appears to have little effect on the size of the gap: Agriculture/Environment has one of the lowest concentrations of female-authored papers---but Economic History has one of the highest (Labour Economics falls between the two). Of course, Economic History papers are still overwhelmingly---as in 74 percent---penned just by men. But given the readability gap is present in subfields with both above- and below-average rates of sole female authorship, women may need to be better writers even where more of them publish.\
In the remainder of the paper, I do not explicitly control for *
\i JEL
\i0 * classification (unless otherwise specified). Comparable codes are available for only a subset of the data and 
\f0 \cf2 [](#table4)
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f0 \cf2 [](#figure1)
\f1 \cf0  suggest they are relatively unimportant, anyway.}