{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset204 PTMono-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red252\green226\blue33;\red255\green128\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\cssrgb\c99200\c89800\c16100;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;
}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf2 [](#table10)
\f1 \cf0  documents a rise in the readability gap as women publish more articles. 
\f0 \cf2 [](#table11)
\f1 \cf0  points to an individual-specific explanation driving this phenomenon. One such explanation is "learning-by-doing". If the payoff from lucid exposition is high, people will catch on---either by internalising explicit comments on text readability in referee reports from earlier papers or making the (un)conscious connection that review times are faster when text is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://819D1485-525A-4C6A-A9CE-9122429F40F7"}}{\fldrslt clearer.}} Applying that payoff only to women yields a succinct explanation for the gap's observed growth.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f0\fs18 \cf3 <!--\\input\{$PPATH/figures/tex/figure6\}-->
\f1\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural
\cf0 But there are two possible alternatives. I investigate both and show that neither is likely. As discussed in 
\f0 \cf2 [][AuthorLevel]
\f1 \cf0 , readability and female ratio may be nonlinearly related---specifically, evidence suggests the latter is increasing and convex in the former. Thus, if women are more likely to co-author with other women (or by themselves) when they already have several publications behind them, the observed increase would actually reflect that late-career concentration.\
This is not the case. 
\f0 \cf2 [](#table12)
\f1 \cf0  displays the marginal effect of 
\f0 \cf4 $t$
\f1 \cf0  for men and women from a fixed effects regression on female ratio. The effect for men is positive; the effect for women negative. As 
\f0 \cf4 $t$
\f1 \cf0  increases, genders diversify: men publish with more women and women publish with more men.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f0\fs18 \cf3 <!--\\input\{$PPATH/tables/tex/table12\}-->\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f1\fs28 \cf0 The second explanation applies to the evolution of female writers as a group---perhaps the clearest women publish more often? 
\f0 \cf2 [](#equation10)
\f1 \cf0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2E5EB403-8893-45B3-A25C-75F1B2F19418"}}{\fldrslt investigates:}}where 
\f0 \cf4 $\\Phi$
\f1 \cf0  is the standard normal cumulative distribution function, 
\f0 \cf4 $T_i\\ge x$
\f1 \cf0  equals one if author 
\f0 \cf4 $i\\text\{'s\}$
\f1 \cf0  total publication count, 
\f0 \cf4 $T_i$
\f1 \cf0 , is at least the positive integer 
\f0 \cf4 $x$
\f1 \cf0  and subscript 1 refers to his first publication. 
\f0 \cf2 [](#table13)
\f1 \cf0  displays 
\f0 \cf4 $\\Phi^\\prime\\cdot\\l(\\beta_2+\\beta_4\\r)$
\f1 \cf0 ---the marginal effect of female authors' first paper readability scores on the probability of publishing multiple times.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f0\fs18 \cf3 <!--\\input\{$PPATH/tables/tex/table13\}-->\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f1\fs28 \cf0 The readability of a woman's first paper does not predict how often she will publish. Regardless of the threshold chosen, it has no impact on her eventual productivity and is indistinguishable from zero in all estimates.}