{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green128\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue64;
}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 I next analyse readability at the author-level. To disaggregate the data, each article is duplicated 
\f1 \cf2 $n_j$
\f0 \cf0  times, where 
\f1 \cf2 $n_j$
\f0 \cf0  is article 
\f1 \cf2 $j$
\f0 \cf0 's number of co-authors and observation 
\f1 \cf2 $j_k\\in\\\{1,\\ldots,n_j\\\}$
\f0 \cf0  is assigned article 
\f1 \cf2 $j$
\f0 \cf0 's 
\f1 \cf2 $k\\text\{th\}$ 
\f0 \cf0 author. I then estimate the dynamic panel model in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9714AF40-2DEC-483F-8F2D-0C287BAF1702"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p3eqSUP6):}}
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{score\}_\{j_\{it\}\}^s$
\f0 \cf0  is readability score 
\f1 \cf2 $s$
\f0 \cf0  for article 
\f1 \cf2 $j$
\f0 \cf0 ---the article corresponding to author 
\f1 \cf2 $i$
\f0 \cf0 's 
\f1 \cf2 $t$
\f0 \cf0 th publication. Gender enters twice via the binary variable 
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{male\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  and 
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{female ratio\}_\{j_\{it\}\}$
\f0 \cf0  to account for author 
\f1 \cf2 $i$
\f0 \cf0 's sex (0 for women, 1 for men) as well as the sex of his co-authors, respectively. 
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{no. authors\}_\{j_\{it\}\}$
\f0 \cf0  is article 
\f1 \cf2 $j$
\f0 \cf0 's total number of authors and controls for author 
\f1 \cf2 $i$
\f0 \cf0 's proportional contribution to his 
\f1 \cf2 $t$
\f0 \cf0 th paper. 
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{score\}_j_\{it-1\}^s$
\f0 \cf0  is the readability score 
\f1 \cf2 $s$
\f0 \cf0  of author 
\f1 \cf2 $i$
\f0 \cf0 's 
\f1 \cf2 $t-1$
\f0 \cf0 th paper. 
\f1 \cf2 $\\vect X_\{j_\{it\}\}$
\f0 \cf0  is a vector of editor, journal, year and institution dummies, 
\f1 \cf2 $\\alpha_i$
\f0 \cf0  are author-specific effects and 
\f1 \cf2 $\\varepsilon_\{it\}$
\f0 \cf0  is an idiosyncratic error.
\f1 \cf3  
\f0 \cf0 Author-specific effects are eliminated by first-differencing the data; endogeneity introduced by the lagged dependant variable is instrumented per 
\f1 \cf4 [#Arellano1995;]
\f0 \cf0  and 
\f1 \cf4 [#Bundell1998;]
\f0 \cf0 . To account for duplicate observations, the regression is weighted by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1CF7B5F8-EB44-43AC-A1A2-44B538E88890"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 $1/n_j$
\f0 \cf0 .}} Standard errors are adjusted for two-way clustering at the editorial board and author levels.\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AC8FAB43-E5F2-4DBE-97BD-14E1A2BA0A0A"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p3table6)}}displays results. The first two lines present contemporaneous marginal effects of co-authoring with women for female (
\f1 \cf2 $\\beta_1$
\f0 \cf0 ) and male (
\f1 \cf2 $\\beta_1+\\beta_2$
\f0 \cf0 ) authors, respectively. Both estimates are positive---everyone writes more clearly when collaborating with women. The effect for women is highly significant.\
The female ratio effect for men is smaller than for women and insignificant---but because the interaction terms ($\\beta_2$) are not significant, different effects for different genders are plausibly due to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://78AEAA44-0C05-477A-A354-70E8A1C6DC7E"}}{\fldrslt chance.}}\
---which makes no sense. Men and women co-authoring together experience an identical rise (or fall) in readability, so the effect for one must mirror the effect for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://44A1FC4C-454F-40C2-B781-D248E484DF31"}}{\fldrslt another.}} Because the interaction terms ($\\beta_2$) are not significant, different effects for different genders are plausibly due to chance. An alternative culprit, however, is non-linearity. By virtue of an individual author's personal contribution to his own paper, average per-article female ratios for men are less than those for women (0.04 vs. 0.61). Thus, if the relationship between readability and the female ratio is increasing and convex in the latter, a smaller, insignificant figure for men is unsurprising given the vast majority co-author with very few women.\
To investigate, I apply the following convex transformation of the female ratio variable in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://65655565-B82D-4BA9-8E50-30DED68180BB"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p3eqSUP7)}}and re-estimate 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p3eqSUP6)
\f0 \cf0  on the sample of male {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4E2B055E-63EE-4363-80DD-B431AF902431"}}{\fldrslt authors.}} 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p3table6)
\f0 \cf0 's second panel presents the result.\
 an author's female ratio one every paper strictly positive every paper is strictly positive for a woman but strictly less than one for a man by virture of their own individual contribution.\
; if its relationship to readability is linear, having one effect for men and another for women makes no sense. To see this, imagine Bob, Dan and Sue co-authoring a first paper that scores 33 points on the Flesch Reading Ease scale. Dan and Sue then co-author a second paper that scores 35 points. Both Dan and Sue experience an identical rise in the ratio of female authors and earn precisely the same readability scores; the effect for one necessarily mirrors the effect for the other.\
But if the ratio of female co-authors is *non-linearly* related to readability---and, specifically, increasing and convex---this situation is entirely plausible.\
The female ratio of the first paper is 
\f2 \uc0\u8531 
\f0 , but \'bd in the second, so \
If the relationship between female ratio and readability is indeed linear, then this finding makes no sense.\
---although, so is the interaction term ($\\beta_2$), meaning  effects do not necessarily differ by genderwe can't yet draw the conclusion  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://25E6E8BE-AF8C-4853-963C-D593EA56ACEF"}}{\fldrslt (
\f1 \cf2 $\\beta_2$
\f0 \cf0 ).}} \
The lack of significance in the male population may be due to non-linearity in how readability correlates with the female ratio.\
\
everyone writes more clearly when co-authoring with women. The effect is not significant for men---but neither is the interaction term [](#p3eqSUP6) ($\\beta_2$) is also not significant.\
When men write with more women, their papers become slightly more readable, although the effect is small, highly insignificant and contradicted by the (also highly insignificant) coefficient on the Flesch-Kincaid score. The story is different for women. Women's papers are more readable when they write with more women. The results are highly statistically significant and two to three times larger than the estimates from 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p3table4)
\f0 \cf0 . \

\f1 \cf3 [](#p3table6)
\f0 \cf0  suggests authors' past scores have little---or no---influence on current readability. While all coefficients of the lagged score are positive, their magnitude is small and none are significant. The lag's insignificant impact suggests a paper's readability is largely contemporaneous in nature. This lack of persistence throws doubt on one possible explanation of the gender difference in readability---women just write better. If inherent difference played a significant role, then how well you write today should be correlated with how well you wrote yesterday. The fact that it mostly isn't is indicitave of the readability gap's timing---and suggests it arises during the writing and revision process, which I now investigate in more depth.\
The miniscule coefficient on the lagged dependant variable suggests that even if women possess superior writing skills initially, that initial advantage disappates very quickly.\
 In addition to ameliorating the statistical issue of serial correlation, the lagged dependant variable models persistence in the dependant variable. By comparing the coefficient on the lagged dependant variable with the estimated effect of female authorship, I can partition the extent to which readability is a product of the substantive regressors---as opposed to change produced from previous time periods---and, importantly, from the initial "shock" of being female.\
Estimates are invalid in the presence of autocorrelation in the idiosyncratic error; tests for serial correlation (lines five and six of 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p3table6)
\f0 \cf0 ) support the null hypothesis (no autocorrelation), indicating no model misspecification.}