{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset204 PTMono-Regular;
\f3\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red16\green128\blue214;\red0\green128\blue64;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\csgenericrgb\c6100\c50000\c84000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;
}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Authors were initially assigned a gender using 
\f1\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\fs28 [GenderChecker.com]({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://genderchecker.com"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 http://genderchecker.com}})
\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f0\fs28 's database of male and female names. Three separate Mechanical Turk workers, a research assistant or I then manually verified them based on photos and other information found on faculty websites, Wikipedia articles, *
\f3\i etc.
\f0\i0 * In situations where the author could not be found but several people with the same first and last name were and all shared the same gender, the author was also assigned that gender. For the remaining cases, I emailed or telephoned colleagues and institutions associated with the author.\
Determining the "gender" of a paper is not nearly as straightforward. For solo-authored manu\\\\-scripts---of which there are 4,014 in the sample---gender corresponds to the sex of the author. As discussed in [][Underrepresentation], however, top economics journals have collectively published just 266 by women. Only a slightly larger number were written entirely---*
\f3\i or even mostly
\f0\i0 *---by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://04793847-51DB-4A7E-9980-71AB59FE3766"}}{\fldrslt women.}}\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf3 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f2\fs18 <!--\\input\{$HOME/Dropbox/Readability/draft/0-tex/fixed/Figure-1\}-->
\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs28 Instead, I assume an article's gender is related to its proportion of female authors. A gender readability gap---if it exists---is presumably a function of (i) the probability a passage of text was written and/or revised by a female co-author; and (ii) referees' beliefs about female authors' contributions to the writing and/or revision of a co-authored paper. Prior research suggests co-authors---regardless of seniority---share responsibility for writing and (especially) revising collaborative work
\f1\fs24 \cf4 <$Scr_Cs::2>
\f2\fs28 [see, *e.g.*, \\]\\[][#Hart2000a,Kumar2016]
\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::2>
\f0\fs28 . Thus, the intersection of (i) and (ii) is likely positively related to the ratio of female authors on a paper.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\fs28 [](#figureX)
\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f0\fs28  corroborates this hypothesis. It plots abstract readability against a paper's ratio of female authors. The slope of the regression line is positive, relatively large (1.88 points on the Flesch Reading Ease scale) and statistically significant; however the relationship is not entirely linear. In particular, it appears to be close to zero when women make up fewer than 50 percent of authors and increasing in the share of female authors only after that. For this reason, I define papers with a strict minority of female authors as male-authored; for papers with 50 percent or more female authors, I allow an article's gender to increase linearly with its proportion of female authors. For robustness, however, I also repeat most analyses (a) on the sample of solo-authored papers, only; (b) comparing papers with a senior female co-author to entirely male-authored papers; (c) on the subset of papers authored by a single gender; (d) using a binary variable equal to one if at least one author is female; and (e) using a binary variable equal to one if at least half of all authors are female. Standard errors from (a) and (c) tend to be larger; those from (b), (d) and (e) usually similarly sized or smaller. In general, however, results do not meaningfully 
\f1\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\fs28 [change][AppendixAlternativeMeasure]
\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f0\fs28 .}