{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue255;\red255\green128\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\csgenericrgb\c50196\c0\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;
\csgray\c100000;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 High bankruptcy costs weaken creditors' ability to solicit fairer workouts. From 
\f1 \cf2 [](#lem2)
\f0 \cf0 , however, workouts are no worse than bankruptcy and liquidation may be better. If the former exists, both parties (weakly) prefer to settle; otherwise, insolvent firms sometimes go bankrupt (
\f1 \cf2 [](#prop1)
\f0 \cf0 ).\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf3 PROPOSITION\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 Insolvent projects choose between voluntary liquidation and: (i) a workout if 
\f1 \cf4 $\\,\\ol V_1^B\\le\\ol V_1^C$
\f0 \cf0 ; (ii) bankruptcy, otherwise.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr

\f1 \cf5 eprop
\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural
\cf0 Without reorganisation, viable firms optimally continue---and per 
\f1 \cf2 [](#prop1)(i)
\f0 \cf0 , this is precisely what they do. Liquidation cannot beat an accepted workout and creditors never reject proposals by viable firms.\
Non-viable firms optimally liquidate---but their owners sometimes insist on workouts that their lenders don't refuse. Workouts enable entrepreneurs to extract deviations from absolute priority. How much depends on creditor earnings in bankruptcy. When those earnings are low, creditors tolerate larger write-offs. Thus, entrepreneurs demand a premium to liquidate: the project's piecemeal value must offset the "haircut" debt holders concede in a workout (see {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8712219C-6352-40C3-B755-0B039F977018"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 [](#p1figure1)}}).\
But workouts aren't always available. Sometimes creditor gains from a possible liquidation outweigh the potential cost of an expensive reorganisation---making bankruptcy a worthwhile gamble. And sometimes, time 1 earnings are so low that entrepreneurs fight liquidation no matter how inefficient continuation may be. The firm goes bankrupt.}