{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;\csgenericrgb\c50196\c0\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Unfortunately, borrowing isn't guaranteed. A higher 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  affects risk twofold: (i) it increases entrepreneurs' chances of default; and (ii) reduces their desire to liquidate. Both effects result in more workouts and bankruptcy. Making either more probable reduces 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0$
\f0 \cf0 . It is entirely possible 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0$
\f0 \cf0  does not cover the creditor's initial outlay no matter what 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  the entrepreneur is willing to pay. Credit is rationed.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf3 PROPOSITION\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 (i) If 
\f1 \cf2 $\\,\\ol V_1^B\\le\\ol V_1^C$
\f0 \cf0 , some firms are credit rationed; the creditor is willing to lend if and only if 
\f1 \cf2 $K_0\\le\\,\\sup_D\\ol C_0$
\f0 \cf0 . (ii) If 
\f1 \cf2 $\\,\\ol V_1^C<\\ol V_1^B$
\f0 \cf0 , creditors are willing to lend at any 
\f1 \cf2 $K_0\\le D$
\f0 \cf0  on the extended real number line such that 
\f1 \cf2 $E_2^R=0$
\f0 \cf0  for all 
\f1 \cf2 $X_1$
\f0 \cf0 , 
\f1 \cf2 $X_2$
\f0 \cf0 .\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr

\f1 \cf4 eprop\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 Credit rationing per 
\f1 \cf5 [](#prop2)(i)
\f0 \cf0  happens to both viable and non-viable firms. For the former, criteria are straightforward. Because 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0$
\f0 \cf0  is increasing in 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0 , its supremum is its limit as 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  tends to infinity; viable firms are credit-rationed whenever\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$!e[p1equation4]\\lim_\{D\\ra\\iy\}\\ol C_0=\\int\\!\\lim_\{D\\ra\\iy\}\\ol C_1^B\\,\\dd\\hat\\Pi=\\ol V_0^B<K_0.e!$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 Viable projects are funded only when their time 0 expected returns in bankruptcy are enough to cover the loan's principal. When it can't, the firm is credit-rationed.\
Credit rationing is actually less of a problem for non-viable projects. For a start, more are liquidated in bankruptcy. As shown in the proof of 
\f1 \cf5 [](#prop2)
\f0 \cf0 ,\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$!e[p1equation5]\\ol C_0=\\ol C_0^B+\\int_\{\\mc\{L^\\star\}\}\\!\\l(D-\\ol C_1^B\\r)\\,\\dd\\hat\\Pi,e!$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0  where 
\f1 \cf2 $\\mc\{L^\\star\}$
\f0 \cf0  is the set of outcomes in which the firm is voluntarily liquidated. When 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  tends to infinity, every firm either engages in a workout or goes bankrupt, making 
\f1 \cf5 [](#p1equation4)
\f0 \cf0  also the limit of 
\f1 \cf5 [](#p1equation5)
\f0 \cf0 . Because 
\f1 \cf2 $q=1-p$
\f0 \cf0 , however, non-viable projects more easily attain 
\f1 \cf2 $K_0\\le\\ol V_0^B$
\f0 \cf0  than do viable ones for project parameters within a sufficiently small neighbourhood of 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol V_1^C=V_1^L$
\f0 \cf0 . And although those that satisfy 
\f1 \cf5 [](#prop2)(i)
\f0 \cf0  do not go bankrupt, their higher probability of being liquidated if they did increases the value of creditors' outside option during a workout. Entrepreneurs have less scope to extract concessions *
\i ex interim
\i0 *. They are rewarded with better lending opportunities *
\i ex ante
\i0 *.\
Lending to non-viable firms is safer for another reason: they often forgo workouts to voluntarily liquidate. When loaning money to viable projects, creditors expect 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0^B$
\f0 \cf0 ; when lending to non-viable projects they earn 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0^B$
\f0 \cf0  plus a "bonus"---the integral in 
\f1 \cf5 [](#p1equation5)
\f0 \cf0 ---pushing the supremum of 
\f1 \cf5 [](#p1equation5)
\f0 \cf0  beyond {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B1A9987D-44D6-466C-BA73-EF920F3F1ACE"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf5 [](#p1equation4)
\f0 \cf0 .}} Even if judges reorganised non-viable and viable projects at the same rate, the latter would still have a tighter credit market. From the creditor's perspective, liquidation is safer so lending is safer when entrepreneurs want it more often.\
Arguably, one group of non-viable firm has no problem ever getting credit---those that sometimes file for bankruptcy (
\f1 \cf5 [](#prop2)(ii)
\f0 \cf0 ). Any firm guaranteed to liquidate at time 1 is guaranteed a loan. With workouts on the table, however, this promise is not credible *
\i ex ante
\i0 * because lenders capitulate *
\i ex interim
\i0 *. For those that go bankrupt, however, creditors resist. Couple that resistance with an excessively high 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  and entrepreneur returns in bankruptcy are exactly what they would be in liquidation: nothing. Assuming firms choose the efficient option when their earnings from doing so are no worse than the alternatives, liquidation at time 1 is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FCE0C91F-2D7A-4611-997B-67710FAB26A2"}}{\fldrslt guaranteed.}}\
Entrepreneurs take out high interest rate loans per 
\f1 \cf5 [](#prop2)(ii)
\f0 \cf0  only as a last {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4EBA4B5D-3AAA-4BD0-9247-5F62A98D1DCA"}}{\fldrslt resort.}} Creditors, on the other hand, love them (
\f1 \cf5 [](#cor1)
\f0 \cf0 ). They are risk-free, yet generate a long-run rate of return above the risk-free rate. Not bad for a zero-profit industry.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf3 COROLLARY\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 Loans made per 
\f1 \cf2 \\autoref\{prop2\}(ii)
\f0 \cf0  satisfy 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol E_0=0$
\f0 \cf0  and 
\f1 \cf2 $K_0<\\ol C_0$
\f0 \cf0 .\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr

\f1 \cf4 ecor
\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural
\cf0 Creditor profits are a byproduct of guaranteed liquidation. Lending is predicated on avoiding bankruptcy and exorbitant rates do this---but only by conferring the creditor absolute rights to 
\f1 \cf2 $X_1$
\f0 \cf0 . Since creditor profits are a side effect rather than the source of lending, no amount of competition will drive them back to zero.}