{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue64;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 While a concise explanation of observed trends cannot entirely abstract from peer review, there are nevertheless coherent hypotheses that do absolve journal referees. One alternative relates to the perception of feedback instead of its production. Possibly, women are more sensitive to the content in referee reports and receptive to its informational value. If their different interpretation leads to different action---such as a greater likelihood of making suggested changes---the ultimate outcome could be their observed inclination to write more {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C8FDBE6D-A349-468A-9CB3-A2C52F572757"}}{\fldrslt clearly.}}\
Greater female responsiveness to referee reports explains well article-level dynamics and gender differences in review time. It struggles to account for the gradual readability improvements women make over their lifetimes. For both phenomena to hold requires systematic failure among women to efficiently allocate resources. Diligently addressing every referee concern has no apparent upside---acceptance rates are unaffected---and a very clear downside---constant redrafting takes time. Wouldn't rational women re-examine initial beliefs\'85 and then start acting like men? Yet, this is not what we observe. Instead, the largest investments in writing well are made by female economists with greatest exposure to peer review---*
\i i.e.
\i0 *, those with the best opportunity to update their {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E9120202-3FC9-415C-9FEF-55D39364D6BE"}}{\fldrslt priors.}}\
A second alternative implicates referee assignment. If women are more likely assigned female referees and women are more demanding critics, clearer writing in female-authored papers would actually reflect their tougher review. Indeed, this explains article- and author-level dynamics as well as women's longer review times.\
Of course, women concentrate in particular fields, so obviously their papers are more likely assigned female referees. However, if the readability gap exists only because of this concentration, controlling for *
\i JEL
\i0 * classification should explain---which it doesn't. In fact, even after including 440 tertiary *
\i JEL
\i0 * category dummies, the gap remains almost identical to (and standard errors only marginally higher than) what is reported in 
\f1 \cf2 [](#p3table4)
\f0 \cf0 , column {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5717FB2C-776F-4AA0-944A-EC0D4EFC1A34"}}{\fldrslt (5).}} Thus, for referee assignment to cause the gap, it must be because editors disproportionately refer female-authored papers to the toughest critics.\
Some evidence supports this idea---female referees are indeed more likely to review female-authored papers
\f1 \cf3 [#Gilbert1994,{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8B8E146A-2CC8-467C-846E-B32E86C3242F"}}{\fldrslt Abrevaya2012]
\f0 \cf0 .}}
\f0 \cf0  However, evidence on whether their reports are more critical is less clear. A study specific to post-graduate biologists suggests yes
\f1 \cf3 [#Gilbert1994]
\f0 \cf0 ; another analysing actual referee reports in a top field economics journal does not
\f1 \cf3 [#Abrevaya2012]
\f0 \cf0 .\
Women tend to review female-authored papers[#Gilbert1994,Abrevaya2012]. \
Thus, if women are more demanding critics, clearer writing in female-authored papers would actually reflect their tougher reviews.\
Matching female-authored papers with female referees may be the innocent concentration of women in particular fields. If this entirely explained the \
women are the toughest critics,  are women, then women's better writing actually reflects different male-female approaches to peer review.\
the readability gap actually reflects gender differences in reviewing and not bias among referees.\
\
Female referees are assigned papers from women more often than are male referees[#Gilbert1994,Abrevaya2012], so perhaps the gap actually reflects gender differences in reviewing?\
and female-authored papers are more likely assigned female referees\
If men and women approach peer review differently, perhaps the gap actually reflects gender differences in reviewing?\
Female referees are just a fraction of all referees---they made up only 8 percent of referees in 1986[#Blank1991], 10 percent in 1994[#Hamermesh1994] and 14 percent in 2013[#Torgler2013].\
Perhaps male and female referees approach peer review differently in that they evaluate papers using using different criteria?\
Indeed, evidence suggests female referees are assigned papers from women more often than are male referees.\
If this were an innocent consequence of greater female concentration in particular fields, the gap would presumably fall after including *JEL* classification controls. The fact that it doesn't means editors are disproportionately allocating women the toughest referees.\
Female referees are only a fraction of all referees. Are they asked to review female-authored papers at such a rate to plausibly cause\
Then why would agriculture/environment---with very few women from which to choose \
Not only are the numbers too small to confidently believe \
Evidence suggests female referees are indeed assigned papers from women more often than are male referees
\f1 \cf3 [#Gilbert1994,Abrevaya2012]
\f0 \cf0 ; however, evidence on whether their reports are more critical is less clear. A study specific to post-graduate biologists suggests yes
\f1 \cf3 [#Gilbert1994]
\f0 \cf0 ; another analysing actual referee reports in a top field economics journal suggests not[#Abrevaya2012]. In any case, women .\
Evidence suggests female referees are assigned papers from women more often than are male referees[#Gilbert1994], so the gap may actually reflect gender differences in reviewing.\
Women are innately better writers coupled with a greater likelihood of being non-native English speakers. The fact that women are innately better writers offsets their poorer English in initial papers. The rise in the readability of their papers over their career reflects the simple fact that their English is improving.\
The explanations remaining are broad, gender-based arguments based on intelligence, perception and conscientiousness. For such an explanation to be convincing, \
}