{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue64;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 While a concise explanation of observed trends cannot entirely abstract from peer review, there are nevertheless coherent hypotheses that do absolve journal referees. One alternative relates to perception of feedback instead of its production. Possibly, women are more sensitive to the content in referee reports and receptive to its informational value. If their different interpretation leads to different action---*
\i e.g.
\i0 *, greater likelihood of making changes---the ultimate outcome could trigger the feminine inclination to write more {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C8FDBE6D-A349-468A-9CB3-A2C52F572757"}}{\fldrslt clearly.}}\
Greater female responsiveness explains well article-level dynamics and differences in review time. It struggles to account for the gradual readability improvements women make over their lifetimes. For both phenomena to hold requires systematic failure among women to efficiently allocate resources: diligently addressing every referee concern has no apparent upside---acceptance rates are unaffected---and a very clear downside---constant redrafting takes time. Wouldn't rational women re-examine initial beliefs\'85 and then start acting like men? Yet, this is not what we observe. Instead, the largest investments in writing well are made by female economists with greatest exposure to peer review---*
\i i.e.
\i0 *, those with the best opportunity to update their {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E9120202-3FC9-415C-9FEF-55D39364D6BE"}}{\fldrslt priors.}}\
A second alternative implicates referee assignment. If women's papers are more likely assigned female referees and female referees are more demanding critics, clearer writing could reflect their tougher reviews.\
This idea accounts for article- and author-level dynamics as well as women's longer review times. And of course, women concentrate in particular fields, so it's natural their papers are more often assigned female referees. However, for the readability gap to exist only because of specialisation, controlling for *
\i JEL
\i0 * classification should explain it. But it doesn't! In fact, even including 440 tertiary *
\i JEL
\i0 * category dummies has virtually no effect: the gap remains almost identical to (and standard errors only marginally higher than) estimates in 
\f1 \cf2 [](#p3table4)
\f0 \cf0 , column {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5717FB2C-776F-4AA0-944A-EC0D4EFC1A34"}}{\fldrslt (5).}}\
So if referee assignment is causing the gap, it's only because journals disproportionately refer female-authored papers to the toughest critics. Now it isn't referees who are biased---it's editors. Some evidence supports this idea---female referees are indeed more likely to review female-authored papers
\f1 \cf3 [#Gilbert1994,{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8B8E146A-2CC8-467C-846E-B32E86C3242F"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Abrevaya2012]
\f0 \cf0 .}}
\f0 \cf0  Nevertheless, it's not so clear whether their reports are any more critical. A study specific to post-graduate biologists suggests yes
\f1 \cf3 [#Gilbert1994]
\f0 \cf0 ; another analysing actual referee reports in a top economics field journal does not
\f1 \cf3 [#Abrevaya2012]
\f0 \cf0 .\
A final alternative is rather uncomfortable. Perhaps female-authored manuscripts deserve more criticism because they are poorer quality?\
If women's papers are not as good, referees *
\i should
\i0 * peruse them more carefully---a byproduct of which could be better written papers after-the-fact or more attractive prose compensating for structural weaknesses before it. Yet, if women's papers are, on average, not as good, that does not mean every woman's paper is not as good.\
Okay, two possibilities:\
1. The paper's readability needs work. But then, why not just stop? Why make it *more* readable than men's papers?\
2. The content needs work, and as a byproduct, the score gets better. Basically, they stop when the paper is as good as a man's.\
Let's assume\
Assume a woman who publishes 10 papers is really of the same quality as a man who publishes 7 papers. Her paper will be 10 Flesch Reading Ease points higher than a man's.\
Here it is: why do we observe the continued increase in female readability scores throughout their careers but zero increase by men? If it's good for women, why isn't the same true for equal quality men?\
Based on this theory, the readability of the paper \
But while this explanation cleanly accounts for longer review times and article-level dynamics, it fails to convincingly cope with productive female economists continuing to write clearly. \
Women are innately better writers coupled with a greater likelihood of being non-native English speakers. The fact that women are innately better writers offsets their poorer English in initial papers. The rise in the readability of their papers over their career reflects the simple fact that their English is improving.\
The explanations remaining are broad, gender-based arguments based on intelligence, perception and conscientiousness. For such an explanation to be convincing, \
}