{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 While it is difficult to abstract entirely from peer review and still explain observed trends, there are nevertheless alternative hypotheses that absolve journal referees of bias. An obvious one relates not to the production of feedback, but instead to its perception. Women may be more sensitive to the content in referee reports and receptive to its informational value. If this difference in interpretation leads to a difference in action---such as incorporating referees' comments and making suggested changes---an ultimate outcome could be a female inclination to write more clearly.\
Greater female propensity to "externally respond" to the feedback contained in referee reports explains well article-level dynamics and gender differences in review length. It struggles to account for the gradual readability improvements women make over their lifetimes. If external responsiveness completely explains the gender readability gap, then women systematically fail at efficient resource allocation. Since diligence has no apparent upside---papers are not reviewed faster---and a very clear downside---addressing every referee concern and constantly redrafting work takes time---rational women should update beliefs on the activity's benefit\'85 and then stop doing it. Yet, this is not what we observe. In fact, the largest investments in writing well are made by female economists with greatest exposure to peer review and so best opportunity to update the prior.\
There is another drawback to this explanation. While it is true that women are more internally responsive to feedback---feedback has a bigger impact on women's self esteem than it does men's---they are no more externally responsive to it: they are not more likely than men to use the feedback to change behaviour, nor does it affect task persistence or actual actual performance[#Roberts1989,Johnson2002]. Women, despite their greater incorporation of evaluative feedback into their own self-evaluation of their competence, do not actually perform any differently than men in response to that feedback.\
n alternative hypothesis is that women are more sensitive to feedback and receptive to its informational value. That is, referees are indeed gender neutral but women's interpretation of those reports leads to a general female inclination to write more clearly. For example, women may be more likely to react to feedback by modifying their behaviour and/or actions. In the present context it may mean women are more diligent in incorporating referees' comments and make suggested changes. Indeed, a greater female propensity to "externally respond" to the criticism contained in referee reports could indeed explain the first two trends. They would therefore been inclined to improve exposition, by conscientiously addressing concerns and review would take longer.\
It has a harder time addressing the last trend. For this explanation to completely explain the gender difference in readability, then women must therefore women systematically allocate their time inefficiently. Women's conscientiousness has no apparent upside---their papers are not reviewed faster---and a probable downside---diligently responding to every referee's whim and more clearly stating ideas is hard work. After repeated exposure, women would presumably update beliefs on how beneficial this activity is and quit doing it. Yet this is not the case; indeed it is the female economists with the greatest exposure to peer review---and therefore the most frequent opportunity to figure this out---who make the largest investments in clear writing.\
\
A third possibility implicates peer review and referees, but has nothing to do with discrimination. Perhaps male and female referees approach peer review differently in that they evaluate papers using using different criteria. Evidence suggests female referees are indeed assigned papers from women more often than are male referees[#Gilbert1994,Abrevaya2012]; however, evidence on whether their reports are more critical is less clear. A study specific to post-graduate biologists suggests yes[#Gilbert1994]; another analysing actual referee reports in a top field economics journal suggests not[#Abrevaya2012]. In any case, women made up only 8 percent of referees in 1986[#Blank1991], 10 percent in 1994[#Hamermesh1994] and 14 percent in 2013[#Torgler2013].\
Evidence suggests female referees are assigned papers from women more often than are male referees[#Gilbert1994], so the gap may actually reflect gender differences in reviewing.\
Women are innately better writers coupled with a greater likelihood of being non-native English speakers. The fact that women are innately better writers offsets their poorer English in initial papers. The rise in the readability of their papers over their career reflects the simple fact that their English is improving.\
The explanations remaining are broad, gender-based arguments based on intelligence, perception and conscientiousness. For such an explanation to be convincing, \
}