{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf120
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Let lower support for $X_1$ be $X_1^L<0$; $X_2$ remains non-{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A6B66ED3-1E93-41F1-BEDE-12FB856E5DF8"}}{\fldrslt negative.}}  Consider the entrepreneur of a viable firm who obtained a loan at $D_1$ but earned $0<X_1$ in period {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6A1808E2-E1A1-47B2-8D52-EDBFAF24B3C1"}}{\fldrslt 1.}}  To continue operating, he must obtain a new loan of $X_1$. I assume obligations in the original debt contract confer the existing creditor right of first refusal to any subsequent loans the entrepreneur takes out.\
When evaluating the loan, the creditor approaches it independent of his previous stake in the company. That is, it is worthwhile to loan the money  if there exists some $D_2$ such that\
$$!e[eq100]\\EE\\l\\[\\min\\\{D_2, X_2+K_2\\\}\\r]=-X_1.e!$$\
Since this is increasing in $D_2$, such a contract exists if and only if $-X_1\\le\\ol X_2+K_2$, where $\\ol X_2$ is the expected value of $X_2$. If this is not true, no other creditor will lend $-X_1$. The firm is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://DF7EB50E-8F93-4365-9388-350A4D55355B"}}{\fldrslt liquidated.}}\
When evaluating the terms of the contract at time 0, the entrepreneur expects $D_1$ when $D_1\\le X_1$. If $X_1$ falls below that but above 0 technically the entrepreneur is insolvent and could renegotiate his loan contract. In the absence of bankruptcy costs, however, negotiations favour the creditor since reorganisation is equivalent to continuation and in liquidation he is guaranteed recovery of his initial investment. Thus, without loss of generality I assume both parties agree to continue operating the firm another period without otherwise modifying the underlying loan contract. Creditor returns are\
$$!e[eq101]\\EE_1\\l[\\min\\\{D_1,X_1+X_2+K_2\\\}\\].e!$$\
If $X_1$ is negative but greater than $-(\\ol X_2+K_2)$, the creditor loans the entrepreneur $-X_1$ at a $D_2$ that satisfies [](#eq:eq100). His expected returns at time 1 are\
$$!e[eq102]\\EE_1\\[\\min\\\{D_1+D_2,X_2+K_2\\\}\\]+X_1.e!$$\
If $X_1$ falls below $-(\\ol X_2+K_2)$ no creditor will lend $-X_1$. Without necessary financing, the project is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://287CD250-7577-4D11-B2AE-C265D86C0785"}}{\fldrslt liquidated.}} Since the firm is deemed "viable", $K_0$ is less than $-(\\ol X_2+K_2)$. Because the creditor is not legally responsible for the firms second period losses, its earnings are 0.\
In every scenario creditor returns are increasing in $D_1$. Thus, creditor returns are maximised at the limit as $D_1$ tends to infinity, *i.e.*,\
$$!e[eq103]\\ol X_1+\\ol X_2+K_2,e!$$\
where $\\ol X_1$ is the expected value of $X_1$. Since the firm is viable by assumption, [](#eq:eq103) is more than $K_0$. Per the arguments made to prove [](#prop2), a $D$ exists that satisfies $\\ol C_0=K_0$. The entrepreneur is able to get credit. Hence, the lending conditions for viable firms are not fundamentally altered when bankruptcy law allows super-senior financing.\
}