{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 Female-authored articles published in top economics journals are better written than similar papers by men. A large part of this gap originates in peer review. To identify the causal mechanism, I derive an empirical test from a subjective expected utility model of an author's decision-making process. The resulting estimate suggests higher standards in peer review cause senior female economists to write at least seven percent more clearly than they otherwise would.\
I also document evidence that sheds more light on the impact higher standards have on women's choices and their productivity measurement: (i) female-authored papers spend more time under review; (ii) women appear to quickly adapt to higher standards *
\f2\i in
\f1\i0 * peer review by adjusting their behaviour *
\f2\i before
\f1\i0 * it. The latter emphasises that observational data almost always capture discrimination in equilibrium; to identify it, one must determine where the equilibrium would have been had discrimination not occurred. The former suggests higher standards could play a role in academia's "Publishing Paradox".\
If higher standards apply elsewhere in the economy they may also rationalise many instances of lower female output: work that is evaluated more critically *
\f2\i at any point in the production process
\f1\i0 * will be systematically better (holding prices fixed) or systematically cheaper (holding quality fixed). This reduces women's wages---for example, if judges require better writing in female-authored briefs, female attorneys must charge lower fees and/or under-report hours to compete with men---and distorts measurement of female productivity---billable hours and client revenue decline; female lawyers appear less productive than they truly are.\
Finally, this study exploits publicly available data to identify and evaluate discrimination's impact on those who are discriminated against. But it is narrowly focused and---because it doesn't study the bias's source---proposes few solutions. More research is needed to better understand how and where higher standards for female authors emerge in peer review. Future studies could apply a similar theoretical framework and more holistic measure of research quality---*
\f2\i e.g.
\f1\i0 *, citations---to these and other economics journals. Readability scores analysed using a similar setup could also evaluate asymmetry anywhere ideas are communicated orally or in writing and large amounts of source material are easily obtainable---journalism, speeches, student essays, business plans, Kickstarter campaigns, *
\f2\i etc.
\f1\i0 * But to answer the deeper questions this paper raises requires confidential data on the editorial process---including access to referee reports. I hope journals are challenged to be candid about bias and willing to support the access and research needed to better understand it.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}