{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue255;\red204\green51\blue63;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green128\blue64;\red255\green128\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\csgenericrgb\c50196\c0\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c80000\c20000\c24706;
\csgenericrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Bankruptcy occurs only if the entrepreneur and his creditor cannot agree whether to continue operating or liquidate the firm. Both parties expect strictly higher returns under separate outcomes. As illustrated in 
\f1 \cf2 [](#lem1)
\f0 \cf0  and its 
\f1 \cf2 [proof](#p1appendixproofs)
\f0 \cf0 , the concavity of creditor returns and convexity of entrepreneurs' bind the latter to reorganisation, the former to liquidation.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf3 LEMMA
\f2 \cf4 \
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 In bankruptcy, the entrepreneur prefers to reorganise the project; the creditor to liquidate it.
\f2 \cf4 \
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr

\f1 \cf5 elem
\f2 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 Guided by legislation, a judge settles the conflict. Insolvency law calls for reorganisation when it is "reasonably likely"
\f1 \cf6 [#HarrisSimmons1989]
\f0 \cf0  to maintain "the survival of the company, and the whole or any part of its undertaking, as a going concern"
\f1 \cf6 [\\]\\[\'a72(3)(a)][#GreatBritain1986]
\f0 \cf0 . Specifically, viable projects---projects with continuation value greater than their assets' piecemeal resale {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://77153ACE-AA6E-48CA-98CD-423A70ECAA4B"}}{\fldrslt value}}---are reorganised, *
\i i.e.
\i0 *,\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf7 $$!e[p1equation1]V_1^L<\\ol V_1^C,e!$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0  where 
\f1 \cf7 $\\ol V_1^C$
\f0 \cf0  is the time 1 expected value of 
\f1 \cf7 $V_2^C$
\f0 \cf0 . When the reverse is true, the project is non-viable: unlikely to survive as a going concern without "unnecessarily harm[ing] creditors as a whole"
\f1 \cf6 [][#HarrisSimmons1989]
\f0 \cf0 . Non-viable projects are liquidated at time 1.\
The judge does not know whether a project before her is viable. Although the creditor and entrepreneur do, per 
\f1 \cf2 [](#lem1)
\f0 \cf0  the latter has an incentive to present evidence that the project should be reorganised while the former will argue just as forcefully for liquidation. The judge, meanwhile, gathers publicly available material on the project's assets and earnings and independent market research on similar projects in the same industry. All together, this information colours her opinion of the firms' true value and forms the basis of her ruling. That ruling is correct with probability 
\f1 \cf7 $p$
\f0 \cf0 , where 
\f1 \cf7 $p\\in(\\sfrac\{1\}\{2\},1)$
\f0 \cf0  depends on the quality and veracity of the documentation provided by the entrepreneur and creditor as well as the intelligence the judge gathers {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://937DA6B0-6530-4AB1-AF52-4EF63D80D440"}}{\fldrslt herself.}} Creditors' expected returns just before her official ruling are\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf7 $$\\ol C_1^B=q\\,\\ol C_1^R+(1-q)\\,C_1^L,$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0  where 
\f1 \cf7 $q=p$
\f0 \cf0  if the project is a viable one, 
\f1 \cf7 $1-p$
\f0 \cf0  if it isn't and 
\f1 \cf7 $\\ol C_1^R$
\f0 \cf0  is the time 1 expected value of 
\f1 \cf7 $C_2^R$
\f0 \cf0 .\
Even with perfect information the judge's decision is biased in favour of reorganisation. 
\f1 \cf7 $\\ol V_1^C$
\f0 \cf0  drives her ruling (
\f1 \cf2 [](#p1equation1)
\f0 \cf0 ), but the time 1 expected value of 
\f1 \cf7 $V_2^R$
\f0 \cf0 , 
\f1 \cf7 $\\ol V_1^R$
\f0 \cf0 , really determines whether a bankrupt project is viable or not. Only when 
\f1 \cf7 $\\ol V_1^R$
\f0 \cf0  exceeds 
\f1 \cf7 $V_1^L$
\f0 \cf0  does the project's true value---including reorganisation costs---surpass the principal amount of the loan. Since 
\f1 \cf7 $\\ol V_1^R<\\ol V_1^C$
\f0 \cf0 , too few bankrupt firms are liquidated and too many are {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://66F235E0-23FD-4277-9162-5482582CCA47"}}{\fldrslt reorganised.}}}