{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red255\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue255;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;\csgenericrgb\c50196\c0\c100000;
\csgenericrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\sa240\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 From 
\f2 \cf2 [][rescue_culture]
\f1 \cf0 , the degree of credit rationing in any economy is largely determined by how many insolvent firms would be reorganised in bankruptcy and the amount of money wasted if they were. Inefficient reorganisation makes getting a loan unequivocally more difficult---an increase in 
\f2 \cf3 $Y$
\f1 \cf0  decreases the value of creditors' outside option and weakens their bargaining position during workouts. The cost of lending rises, as does credit-rationing {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2F2E72EE-0047-4449-8BD2-EAFCB65B127E"}}{\fldrslt (
\f2 \cf2 [](#prop5)(i)
\f1 \cf0 ).}}\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f2 \cf4 PROPOSITION\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 (i) When 
\f2 \cf3 $Y$
\f1 \cf0  increases, credit-rationing increases. (ii) When 
\f2 \cf3 $p$
\f1 \cf0  increases, more viable but fewer non-viable firms are credit-rationed.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr

\f2 \cf5 eprop\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 The impact of 
\f2 \cf3 $p$
\f1 \cf0  is not so straightforward. 
\f2 \cf3 $p$
\f1 \cf0  affects creditor earnings in different ways depending on whether an insolvent project is viable or not. For the non-viable, increasing judicial accuracy makes it more likely bankrupt projects are liquidated. The value of creditors' outside option rises; entrepreneurs accept greater financial responsibility during workouts; credit rationing falls. For viable firms, an increase in 
\f2 \cf3 $p$
\f1 \cf0  has precisely the opposite effect. Judicial error actually makes it easier for these firms to get credit (
\f2 \cf2 [](#prop5)(ii)
\f1 \cf0 ).\
Judicial error simultaneously expands and contracts credit rationing. For non-viable firms the direction is obvious: it increases insolvency costs and stifles lending. When judges make mistakes, however, viable firms are sometimes liquidated. This decision is legally inaccurate and possibly even economically suboptimal. Nonetheless creditors do not lose money in liquidation so their expected returns in insolvency are higher. They are more willing to lend.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f2 \cf4 COROLLARY\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 In receivership, 
\f2 \cf3 $Y$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f2 \cf3 $p$
\f1 \cf0  have no impact on credit-rationing.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr

\f2 \cf5 ecor
\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural
\cf0 But by replacing payments with outcomes---and eliminating judicial interference entirely---a perfectly efficient outcome prevails. Firms liquidate and continue when they should, debt is cheap and credit-rationing unheard of. In its purest form, receivership---*
\i i.e.
\i0 *, procedures similar to those found in the U.K. prior to 1986---achieves both. As shown in 
\f2 \cf2 [](#prop4)
\f1 \cf0  (
\f2 \cf2 [][rescue_culture]
\f1 \cf0 ), receivership forces entrepreneurs to shoulder maximum financial responsibility during insolvency; every such project is funded. 
\f2 \cf3 $Y$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f2 \cf3 $p$
\f1 \cf0  have no impact on 
\f2 \cf2 [credit-rationing](#cor3)
\f1 \cf0 .}