{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green128\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 To measure 
\f1 \cf2 $Y$
\f0 \cf0  and 
\f1 \cf2 $p$
\f0 \cf0 , I use World Bank Doing Business data. Doing Business indicators cover the cost and complexity of complying with business-related administrative procedures and regulations. They are estimated based on responses to a set of standardised, hypothetical scenarios posed to accountants, lawyers and other relevant local experts. \
The Doing Business's "cost of enforcing contracts" proxies for 
\f1 \cf2 $Y$
\f0 \cf0 . It aggregates attorney, court and enforcement fees needed to resolve a commercial dispute. The final figure reflects those costs as a percentage of the claim in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1D775463-DC82-4318-943D-8863AFFCC81C"}}{\fldrslt question.}}\
For 
\f1 \cf2 $p$
\f0 \cf0 , I construct an index of the depth, coverage and quality of financial information available on individuals and firms in a country. It is calculated per {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://58A22C39-20C2-4784-896F-5D603449C370"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p2equation1)
\f0 \cf0 :}}
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{Public registry\}_\{jt\}$
\f0 \cf0  is the Doing Business's "credit registry coverage"---the percentage of individuals covered by a public data registry for country 
\f1 \cf2 $j$
\f0 \cf0  in year {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F002B005-B25A-4CA5-A99C-76776BE3B366"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 $t$
\f0 \cf0 .}} 
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{Private bureau\}_\{jt\}$
\f0 \cf0  is its "credit bureau coverage"---the corresponding coverage of a private data bureau. 
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{Depth of credit info. index\}_\{jt\}$
\f0 \cf0  is the Doing Business's "depth of credit information index". It measures the comprehensiveness of credit-related data in the economy; 
\f1 \cf2 $S_t$
\f0 \cf0  divides by 6 for years prior to 2013 and 8 thereafter to account for methodological {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://62E9C378-CA4C-4681-896E-D5355280F1CC"}}{\fldrslt changes.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FE90D0FC-D94F-4028-8B3F-ED3F7563FD11"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p2table3)}}summarises these variables. On average, resolving a financial dispute costs 36.7 percent of the underlying claim in the countries surveyed by the WES, slightly above the 2014 global average of 33.5 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://721280CD-660D-4A64-B63F-E19B935FC69C"}}{\fldrslt percent.}} Values range between 0 and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://69AFC2F3-7519-4451-AAE9-FA71C2E639B8"}}{\fldrslt 1.63.}} The latter distinction goes to East Timor in 2009; the former to Bhutan that same year.\
The credit information index ranges between 0 and 1. In a given year, roughly half of the WES countries have the minimum value. Argentina scored 1 in 2006 and 2010; Honduras and Uruguay in 2010. The mean is 20.6 percent---almost seven points lower than the 2014 global average (27.7 percent).  This difference mainly reflects limited private bureau coverage in WES countries (global average 27.3 percent) and, to a lesser extent, a lower rating on the depth of credit information index (global average 49.0). WES countries surpass the global average in public registry coverage (10.1 percent).}