{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset204 PTMono-Regular;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green128\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red252\green226\blue33;
\red0\green128\blue64;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\cssrgb\c99200\c89800\c16100;
\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 I next analyse readability at the author-level. To disaggregate the data, each article is duplicated 
\f1 \cf2 $N_j$
\f0 \cf0  times, where 
\f1 \cf2 $N_j$
\f0 \cf0  is article 
\f1 \cf2 $j$
\f0 \cf0 's number of co-authors; observation 
\f1 \cf2 $j_k\\in\\\{1,\\ldots,N_j\\\}$
\f0 \cf0  is assigned article 
\f1 \cf2 $j$
\f0 \cf0 's 
\f1 \cf2 $k\\text\{th\}$
\f0 \cf0  author. I then estimate the dynamic panel model in 
\f2\fs24 \cf3 <$Scr_Cs::0>
\f1\fs28 [](#equation1)
\f2\fs24 <!$Scr_Cs::0>
\f1\fs28 :\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs18 \cf4 <!--\\input\{$HOME/Dropbox/Readability/draft/equations/equation1\}-->\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0  
\f1 \cf2 $R_\{j_\{it\}\}$
\f0 \cf0  is the readability score for article 
\f1 \cf2 $j$
\f0 \cf0 ---author 
\f1 \cf2 $i$
\f0 \cf0 's 
\f1 \cf2 $t$
\f0 \cf0 th publication; 
\f1 \cf2 $R_\{it-1\}$
\f0 \cf0  is the corresponding value of author 
\f1 \cf2 $i$
\f0 \cf0 's 
\f1 \cf2 $t-1$
\f0 \cf0 th paper. Gender enters twice---the binary variable 
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{male\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  and 
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{female ratio\}_j$
\f0 \cf0 ---to account for author 
\f1 \cf2 $i$
\f0 \cf0 's sex and the sex of his co-authors, respectively. 
\f1 \cf2 $\\vect X_j$
\f0 \cf0  is a vector of observable controls. It includes: editor, journal, year, journal 
\f1 \cf2 $\\times$
\f0 \cf0  year, institution and English fluency dummies; quality controls---citation count and 
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{max. \}T_j$
\f0 \cf0  fixed effects; and 
\f1 \cf2 $N_j$
\f0 \cf0  to account for author 
\f1 \cf2 $i$
\f0 \cf0 's proportional contribution to paper 
\f1 \cf2 $j$
\f0 \cf0 . 
\f1 \cf2 $\\alpha_i$
\f0 \cf0  are author-specific effects and 
\f1 \cf2 $\\vep_\{it\}$
\f0 \cf0  is an idiosyncratic error. 
\f1 \cf2 $\\alpha_i$
\f0 \cf0  are eliminated by first-differencing; endogeneity in the lagged dependant variable is instrumented with earlier lags
\f1 \cf5 [#Arellano1995,Blundell1998]
\f0 \cf0 . To account for duplicate articles, the regression is weighted by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1CF7B5F8-EB44-43AC-A1A2-44B538E88890"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 $1/N_j$
\f0 \cf0 .}} Standard errors are adjusted for two-way clustering on editor and author.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs18 \cf4 <!--\\input\{$HOME/Dropbox/Readability/draft/tex/generated/table5\}-->
\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf3 [](#table5)
\f0 \cf0  displays results. Rows one and two present contemporaneous marginal effects on co-authoring with women for female (
\f1 \cf2 $\\beta_1$
\f0 \cf0 ) and male (
\f1 \cf2 $\\beta_1+\\beta_2$
\f0 \cf0 ) authors, respectively. Both estimates are positive---everyone writes more clearly when collaborating with women. Marginal effects for women are highly significant and at least twice as large as those in 
\f1 \cf3 [](#table4)
\f0 \cf0 ---women write 2--6 percent better than {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9E25BFB6-1199-4576-8E18-FEBF362D6361"}}{\fldrslt men.}} When men write with women, however, marginal effects are smaller and less precise.\
Men and women co-authoring together experience an identical rise (or fall) in readability, so the effect for one should mirror the other. Yet, 
\f1 \cf3 [](#table5)
\f0 \cf0  suggests they don't. While the interaction terms (
\f1 \cf2 $\\beta_2$
\f0 \cf0 ) are insignificant---*
\i i.e.
\i0 *, the observed disparity is plausibly due to chance---the difference may reveal an increasing, convex relationship between female ratio and readability. Men's smaller effect potentially reflects their disproportionate tendency to co-author exclusively with other men---precisely where the marginal impact of an additional woman is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://41A2CFB8-1468-4224-9BB4-B9184F5ECF67"}}{\fldrslt low.}}\
Tests for serial correlation indicate no model misspecification. Coefficients on the lagged dependant variables are small, suggesting readability is mostly determined contemporaneously. Nevertheless, their uniform positivity and significance indicate modest persistence.}