{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red255\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue255;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green128\blue64;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;\csgenericrgb\c50196\c0\c100000;
\csgenericrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf2 [](#prop1)
\f1 \cf0 , 
\f0 \cf2 [](#prop2)
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f0 \cf2 [](#prop3)
\f1 \cf0  imply two fundamental problems caused by bankruptcy: (i) credit rationing and/or decisions that induce premature liquidation *
\i ex ante
\i0 *; and (ii) inefficient continuation *
\i ex interim
\i0 *. Problem 1 affects viable firms; Problem 2 affects non-viable firms.\
Rescue culture supposedly limits liquidating viable firms. When procedures are expensive, however, the opposite occurs. Minimising Problem 1 means cutting their {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A6091A67-AE8E-4E8B-84CD-4E03582A5B10"}}{\fldrslt cost.}} When 
\f0 \cf3 $Y=0$
\f1 \cf0 , all viable firms get credit. 
\f0 \cf3 $K_0<\\ol V_0^B$
\f1 \cf0 ; per 
\f0 \cf2 [](#prop2)(i)
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p1equation4)
\f1 \cf0  a 
\f0 \cf3 $D$
\f1 \cf0  exists that satisfies 
\f0 \cf2 [](#lem3)
\f1 \cf0 . Since viable firms continue even when insolvent (
\f0 \cf2 [](#prop1)(i)
\f1 \cf0 ), investment decisions are anyway efficient. Meanwhile, 
\f0 \cf2 [](#prop2)(ii)
\f1 \cf0  applies to all non-viable firms; none are excluded from the lending market. With sufficiently differentiated product markets for productive assets, *
\i ex interim
\i0 * decisions are efficient as {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://45ABD237-13FF-4A20-B963-2EDB93E4D314"}}{\fldrslt well.}}\
The model assumes bankruptcy does not explicitly curtail creditors' right to 
\f0 \cf3 $D$
\f1 \cf0 . Thus, regulations which neither reduce future earnings nor explicitly cut claims do not impact *
\i ex ante
\i0 * lending decisions. As discussed in the introduction, most rules from Chapter 11 meet these criteria---even super-senior interim financing. As shown in 
\f0 \cf2 [][p1AppendixSuperSeniorFinancing]
\f1 \cf0 , emergency finance prevents existing creditors from blocking new loans. Nevertheless, interim loans do not alter underlying firm value; contracts adjust upfront to account for their possibility. Lending conditions and investment decisions remain efficient.\
Yet elevating the value of creditors' outside option simultaneously addresses Problems 1 and 2. Several common law countries---most notably the U.K. before 2003---include a form of bankruptcy that does just that: receivership. Receivership applies to a special class of creditor---one that holds a lien on more than just the firm's physical assets.\
"Floating charge" liens apply to an entire {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://ED9AEA01-1112-439F-ABA7-2F5B27840C44"}}{\fldrslt business.}} In receivership, a creditor secured by one has full control of the distressed firm. He may operate it himself, sell it to a third party or liquidate its assets piecemeal. Setting 
\f0 \cf3 $q=0$
\f1 \cf0  simulates receivership: creditor and entrepreneur disagreement implies the creditor supports liquidation (
\f0 \cf2 [](#lem1)
\f1 \cf0 ); without reorganisation, courts uphold his wish.\
Contracts based on receivership replace a payment with an outcome precisely when that payment is particularly risky. Safer outside options are more valuable, forcing entrepreneurs to shoulder greater financial responsibility in insolvency. Since 
\f0 \cf3 $\\ol C_1^B=C_1^L$
\f1 \cf0 , the creditor always recovers the principal amount of his loan. Lending is riskless. The entrepreneur asks to borrow 
\f0 \cf3 $K_0$
\f1 \cf0  and repay exactly that one period later. The creditor accepts. Every project is funded. *
\i Ex ante
\i0 * and *
\i ex interim
\i0 * investment decisions are efficient (
\f0 \cf2 [](#prop4)
\f1 \cf0 ).\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf4 PROPOSITION\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 In receivership, 
\f0 \cf3 $D=\\ul K_0$
\f1 \cf0 . There is no credit-rationing. Non-viable firms liquidate at time 1. Viable firms continue until time 2.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr

\f0 \cf5 eprop\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 But receivership is not common and its ability to alleviate credit-rationing frequently undermined by regulation. Reformed U.K. procedures took effect in 2003. The new law limits floating charges to eight exceptional {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F71C1D46-FB07-4C1E-8190-753F945B7DA3"}}{\fldrslt cases.}}\
Rescue culture was the obvious rationale. Nevertheless, 60 percent of small-to-medium-sized firms in British receivership ultimately continued operating as going concerns---and most lenders that eventually liquidated genuinely tried a rescue first
\f0 \cf6 [#Davydenko2008,{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://19F8F3F9-AE81-4C2F-B131-CA8C4A3A8F7F"}}{\fldrslt Franks2005a]
\f1 \cf0 .}}
\f1 \cf0  Chapter 11, on the other hand, rehabilitates only a third of them; the rest are eventually liquidated
\f0 \cf6 [#Baird2007a,Kahl2001]
\f1 \cf0 .}