{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset204 PTMono-Regular;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f5\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green128\blue64;\red0\green0\blue128;\red255\green128\blue0;
\red252\green226\blue33;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;
\cssrgb\c99200\c89800\c16100;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c0\c0;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 A second issue is that readability scores are only as accurate as the underlying text fed into them. Measurement error obviously increases when they are applied to grammatically incorrect, improperly punctuated or poorly transcribed passages of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D331E093-56D8-43EF-A412-2B993140B836"}}{\fldrslt text.}} \
\
Thus, non-classical measurement error from (c) affects the superficial interpretation of a difference: \
instead of identifying a gender difference in *readability* \
\
 even if non-classical measurement error prevents \
in the absence of errors by (a) and (b), \
\
A more concerning (and relevant) measurement error is that readability scores systematically mismeasure "readability" that the degree of misreporting or mismeasurement is correlated with the variable of interest (gender) conditional on observable controls. \
is correlated with the variable of interest (gender), then the results presented in this paper \
embodied within the scores themselves\
the software used to calculate readability scores *or* the scores themselves intrensically embody measurement error in a way that is \
Either due to mismeasurement instroduced by the software used to calculate readability score *or* from from some inherent \
potentially suffer from a form of mis-measurement\
\
try to discuss the means I have taken to try to reduce this error has \
Nevertheless, inferences made from non-causal predictors are necessarily biased by measurement error. For this reason, I collect a relatively large sample of \
Using the scores in empirical analysis therefore requires confronting the issue as transparently and comprehensively as possible
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\fs28 [#Loughran2016]
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs28 . I try achieve this in several ways.\
While all of these components are indeed important for determining readability, the few measures developed to capture them are also highly correlated with readability {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://86B948F6-F0EA-4907-83CA-4D64D856D97E"}}{\fldrslt scores.}} Nevertheless, as imperfect measures of "readability", to be interpreted as such requires confronting the issue of measurement {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6BEA3505-78D5-4A73-9B2B-4C7D09784D80"}}{\fldrslt error.}}\
Indeed, as highlighted in [](#figure0X) are not perfectly correlated with \
Readability scores are a weighted average of vocabulary and sentence length. Inferring "readability" introduces measurement error---as shown in [](#figure0X), the scores are indeed highly correlated with alternative measures of readability, but they aren't perfectly correlated with those {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2464E2F6-5729-4FE5-8114-68B145794037"}}{\fldrslt measures.}} \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 \
Using readability scores in this manner has several important advantages. First, researcher subjectivity is avoided. Hundreds of readability scores exist, each employing slightly different methodology to analyse the readability of a piece of text. I simply choose the five most common measures. Moreover, although it is possible (probable?) that one of the underlying components of readability scores is truly driving nay observed gender differences, there is no prior research to pinpoint which one that would be. Using the overarching score, meanwhile, incorporates both measures. This will obviously come at a cost (in terms of noise) if one of the underlying components is truly driving gender differences in readability; but the benefit is reduced researcher subjectivity.\
\
I do not indent to use readability as a proxy for the overall quality of a paper. Instead, I look at readability after controlling for other components---citations, author institution---that reflect (or are a consequence of) the quality of the underlying paper. That is, holding everything constant, what is the marginal difference in readability of male and female-authored papers? \
these readability scales only work as supplementary tools for a text where language proficiency is already confirmed through other means.\
These scores are only approximations of reading difficulty and the educational/intellectual level your audience might need to understand your work. They are obviously not indicators of writing quality or how well your writing will be received by your target audience. I would say that a work with such low readability scores and such long sentences (26 for 1200 words?) is likely to come off as too obscure or elitist to the general reader, and would have a very limited audience. But, of course, such things are a matter of taste and convention. So ultimately, this is just my personal opinion.\
Of course, readability formuals are not perfect predictors of readability. Evidence suggests they may not be accurate enough to adequately assess or guide development of individual documents, including legal briefs[#Sirico2007], financial disclosure documents[#Loughran2014] or school reading material[#Ardoin2005, Powell-Smith2001]. But any measure used in quantitative analysis to an extent suffers from this criticism. Unemployment status is a noisy predictor of an individual's future employment situtation, but aggregated over many individuals, it more accurately predicts how easy it is to get a job in a particular geographic unit. IQ scores are likely a noisy predictor of one person's intelligence---but are more accurate when aggregated over larger samples. The PISA score is a noisy measure of the educational atainment of a particular country. But---as with readability scores---each of these measures do correlate with the outcome of interest.\
However, the use of certain quantitative measures is well established in research. Thus, the process of---and therefore trust in---data collection is more mature. Textual analysis, on the other hand, is still a developing field, with few discipline-specific norms for measuring inputs and selecting methods used to address a given empirical issue.\
It has been claimed that traditional tests of reading difficulty "are dubious instruments for adequately assessing the readability of accounting narratives that are adjust oriented and specialist in nature."[p. 172\\]\\[][#Jones1994]. Yet this criticism was aimed at using readability scores to assess the readability of *specific* texts---*i.e.*, readability scores may not be precise enough to determine if a specific financial disclosure document is sufficiently clear or if a particular book is appropriate for certain grade-levels.\
Yet while the margin for error in each individual case may be large, readability scores nevertheless *do* correlated with writing clarity, making them appropriate measures to estimate gender differences when sample sizes are sufficiently {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://81360368-C9FC-4945-9F14-935229CE3769"}}{\fldrslt large.}} Just like saying the U.K. has a stronger economy than France because it has a higher estimated GDP per capita is less certain than making the more general claim that countries with higher GDP per capita have, on average, stronger economies than countries with lower GDP per capita. Similarly, the statement "Finland has a better education system because it earns a higher PISA score" is less certain than the statement\
\
I do not indent to use readability as a proxy for the overall quality of a paper. Instead, I look at readability after controlling for other components---citations, author institution---that reflect (or are a consequence of) the quality of the underlying paper. That is, holding everything constant, what is the marginal difference in readability of male and female-authored papers? Yet, although the purpose of this paper is just to show that women are better writing, it would be nice to see that better writing in female-authored papers is associated with other positive quality outcomes. INSERT FIGURES SHOWING THIS.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 ; mechanically shortening sentences and using simpler words probably won't improve {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D3E2C34A-0C7D-43F3-B96E-C3676DAB4440"}}{\fldrslt it.}} This is because the concept of readability is broader than these two components. \
 Interpreting differences in readability scores as actual differences in readability---coupled with the relatively large samples used in this paper---suggests that effects I present suffer from attenuation bias.\
\
As discussed in [][Abstracts]\
In X I discuss how remaining measurement bias may affect the results I obtain.\
Readability scores omit many other aspects important for readability, such as g\
\
---or anything indirectly correlated with gender---is not affected by \
\
Specifically, readability scores only measure the "surface features" of text and ignore other features such as content, organisation, coherence and human interest as well as features of the layout such as font, spacing, the prevalence of relevant figures and graphics and reader interest are all important components of reading comprehension ignored by the formulas.\
Thus, adaptions and revisions of texts by mechanically lowering readability scores can result in less readable text. Also, reduced cohesion may be brought about by mechanically shortening sentences. Thus, classifying text by readability scores comes with all the same problems of classifying intelligence using IQ tests, or biases using implicit bias tests or really anything using supervised machine learning texts. Thus, applying readability scores in academic research comes with similar cautions.\
Yet, despite the success of readability formulas, they remain controversial. Critics of the formulas typically concentrate on three main criticisms. First, one limitation of the formulas is that they do, indeed, contain only \'93surface features\'94 of text and ignore other features like content and organisation. The research shows, however, that these surface features\'97the readability variables\'97with all their limitations have remained the best predictors of text difficulty as measured by comprehension tests (Hunt 1965, Bormuth 1966, Maxwell 1978, Coupland 1978, Kintsch and Miller 1981, Chall 1984, Klare 1984, Davison 1984 and 1986, Carver 1990, Chall and Conard 1991, Chall and Dale 1995).\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 \
Second, some critics contend that the readability formulas were developed for children and they never were never formulated or tested with technical documents. This is actually incorrect. All five formulas were originally developed to assess the reading difficulty of adult reading material[#Dubay2004,Vieth1988;]. For example, Klare (1952) tested the Flesch Reading Ease and Dale-Chall formulas against the 16 standardised passages of reading comprehension tests developed for adult readers. Several extensive studies (Klare et al. 1955a, Klare et al. 1957, Klare and Smart 1973, Caylor et al. 1973, Kincaid et al. 1975, Hooke et al. 1979) used materials developed for technical training and regulations in the military to formulate and test several of today\'92s most popular formulas such as the Flesch-Kincaid grade-level formula. A series of studies in the military (Klare et al. 1955a) examined how prior knowledge as well as the text variables affect the retention and the acceptability of technical documents. more readable versions resulted in: Greater and more complete retention. Greater amount read in a given time. Greater acceptability (preference).\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 Additionally, as shown in [][Abstracts], NBER abstracts---both those by men and women---change significantly in readability between draft and final version. As I show in [][NBER], drafts are typically released as NBER working papers *after* they were already submitted to peer review (and this is especially true for female-authored papers). Since post-submission, authors probably do not solicit non-referee feedback nor make non-referee requested changes. Thus, these changes in both male and female-authored papers probably do reflect the peer review process.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 \
The Flesch Reading Ease scales from 0 (hard) to 100 (easy). In contrast, the other four scores generate grade levels estimating the minimum years of schooling necessary to confidently understand an evaluated text---and so lower scores indicate easier-to-read text. To minimise confusion, I multiply the four grade-level scores by negative one. Thus, higher numbers universally correspond to clearer writing throughout the paper.\
Moreover, some authors have proposed methods they consider to be better estimates of readability. [#Benoit2017;] proposes X; [#Loughran2014;] proposes X, *etc.* While all of these studies criticise one or more traditional measures of readability---and propose new, alternative measures of the readability of complex documents---they also, universally, confirm that traditional metrics of readability do indeed correlate with the actual readability of a particular piece of text.\
\
a number of positive---and a few negative---firm characteristics and financial market outcomes
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\fs28 [for a thorough review of this research, see\\]\\[][#Loughran2016]
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs28 .\
The role of readability is also considered important as a central or adjunct variable in assessing financial documents. The empirical results of several studies studies repeatedly document a statistical association between a traditional readability measure and other attributes of the firm. The first paper to examine the link between annual report readability and firm performance for a meaningful sample is [#Li2008;]. He measures the readability of annual reports using the Gunning Fog Index and the number of words contained in the annual report. He finds that firms with lower reported earnings tend to have annual reports that are harder to read (*i.e.*, high Fog Index values or high word counts). He also finds that companies with more readable annual reports have higher earnings persistence. Other researchers have also used the Gunning Fog Index as a measure of annual report readability. [#Biddle2009;] find that firms with high reporting quality (using the Gunning Fog Index and two other variables) are associated with greater capital investment efficiency. [#Guay2015;] find that companies with less readable annual reports (based on six different readability measures, including the Gunning Fog Index) tend to mitigate this negative readability effect by issuing more managerial forecasts of earnings per share, sales and cash flows. [#Miller2010;] finds that small investors trade significantly fewer shares of firms with high Fog Index values and word counts (*i.e.*, less readable annual reports) around the 10-K filing date. Less readable annual reports should be harder to process especially for less-sophisticated {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8BDF0E20-8C1F-4F63-A7B1-ADE47C0EF3B2"}}{\fldrslt investors.}} Other studies have found that readable business documents are linked to lower analyst dispersion and greater earnings forecast accuracy[#Lehavy2011], higher trading volumn[#DeFranco2015] and stronger analyst reactions to both good and bad news[#Rennekamp2012;]. Other studies have shown that investors are more likely to invest in firms with shorder, more readable 10-Ks[#Lawrence2013], and firms with more readable documents have more pronouced small investor trading activity around the filing date [#Miller2010].\
used them to show that ministerial speeches became easier to understand post democratisation likely because of an effort to appeal to new voters, who are poorer and less educated.\
Political scientists have used them to positively link clarity of communications with better informed voters\
The former tend to use readability scores to link linguistic sophistication to political outcomes[see, *e.g.*,\\]\\[][#Spriggs1996,Sirling2016,Owens2011,Bischof2018]. The latter use them to link clarity of communication with financial outcomes[for a comprehensive review of this research, see\\[\\[][#Loughran2016]. Generally, this research has found concrete benefits to clarity.\
 They have gotten the widest pickup as a proxy for "complexity" in political discourse and corporate disclosures. Generally, this research has used these measures to proxy for textual complexity with an eye to link linguistic sophistication to outcomes---and a focus on the concrete benefits to clarity. [#Janson2011;], for instance, studies the reading level of communications by four central banks, equating lower reading levels of bank communication with greater clarity, which they link to positive effects on the volatility of returns of financial markets. Likewise, [#Owens2011;] and [#Spriggs1996;] examine the complexity of Supreme Court decisions, pointing to the importance of clarity in court opinions. In the context of the British parliament, [#Spirling2016;] applies readability measures to document the democratising effects of franchise reform on elite speeches. Studying post-war Austrian and German elections, [#Bischof2018;] find that simpler manifestos make for better informed voters.\
\
\
This decision was made on the assumption that a gender readability gap---if it exists---is function of (i) the probability a particular portion of analysed text was written and/or revised by a female co-author; and (ii) referees' beliefs about female authors' contributions to the writing of a paper. I assume the intersection of (i) and (ii) is positively related to the ratio of female authors on a paper. This assumption is supported by prior research suggesting that co-authors---regardless of seniority---tend to share responsibility for writing and revising collaborative work{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A6093454-E3E3-4E9A-AB83-C0CF66BA8284"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\fs28 [#Hart2000,Kumar2016]
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs28 .}} [CONFIRM REFERENCE]\
\
\
more readable text longer in short term memory\
studied the reading efficiency and retention of 120 male aviators in a mechanics course at Chanute Air Force Base in Illinois. They used two versions of technical training materisl, hard (13
\fs18 \super th
\fs28 \nosupersub --15
\fs18 \super th
\fs28 \nosupersub  grade) and easy (7--8
\fs18 \super th
\fs28 \nosupersub  grade). They measured reading efficiency with an eye-movement camera with which they could determine the number of words read per second and the number of words read per fixation. The study showed that the easy text significantly improved both readign efficiency and retention. [Rothkopf1977;] showed the connection between readability and how many words a typist continues to type after the copy page is covered.\
A series of studies in the military were conducted at the Sampson Air Force Base in New York and Chanute Air Force Base in illinois using 989 male Air Force enlistees in training with different versions of the same texts. They used the Flesch Reading Ease and Dale-Chall formulas to rate the texts as Easy (grade 7), present (12
\fs18 \super th
\fs28 \nosupersub  grade) and hard (16
\fs18 \super th
\fs28 \nosupersub  grade)[#Klare1955]. The study found that more readable versions resulted in greater and more complete retention, greater amount read in a given time and greater acceptability.\
\
with results from multiple choice reading comprehension tests, cloze tests from 46 published studies \
with results from reading comprehension tests, from multiple choice reading comprehension tests\
Early statistical validity of readability scores was established by applying the formulas to passages of text that had previously been ranked according to difficulty based on the average reader's ability to correctly answer several comprehension questions after reading it. All scores correlate highly with these tests: 0.64--0.70. Later studies confirmed their validity using the cloze procedure{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9BA45E82-CD46-40E5-8430-D6A16D8CF2F2"}}{\fldrslt [for a detailed and extensive overview of this research, see\\]\\[][#Klare1975].}} Other studies have also validated readability scores against the judgement of both expert and non-expert human judgement, oral fluency tests and other readability scores. In general, readability scores are highly correlated with other readability rescores; they also exhibit a strong association with rankings provided by human judgement. Their correlations with measures of oral reading fluency---e.g., the number of words read correctly aloud per minute---are positive, but more moderate[#Begeny2014,Ardoin2005].\
\
 [#Bormuth1966;] found cloze scores correlated highly with all the individual comopnents of readability scores used in this analysis (syllables per word, sentence length, *etc.*). This study also provided evidence that the correlation between formula variables and comprehension do not change as a function of reading ability. These studies continued to show strong statistical correlation between readability scores and writing clarity\
\
The constants in each formula vary widely as do the components used to rank vocabulary. The Flesch Reading Ease and Flesch-Kincaid scores rely on syllable count. Gunning Fog and SMOG total polysyllabic words (words with three or more syllables). Dale-Chall tallies words not on a pre-defined list of 3,000 so-called "easy" {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://99A63E63-2F9B-4007-BF2F-3C7F439D433F"}}{\fldrslt words.}} Because of these differences, the four grade-level scores rarely generate identical figures; nevertheless, all five scores produce roughly equivalent rankings(for a review of literature supporting this conclusion, see, [][AppendixMetaAnalysis]).\
\
---*
\i i.e.
\i0 *, readers' ease in understanding a passage of text. Hundreds of formulas try to measure readability by exploiting this relationship. I concentrate on the five most widely used, tested and reliable measures for adult reading material: Flesch Reading Ease, Flesch-Kincaid, Gunning Fog, SMOG (Simple Measure of Gobbledegook) and Dale-Chall
\f2 \cf2 [#DuBay2004]
\f1 \cf0 . Each are listed in 
\f2 \cf3 [](#table2)
\f1 \cf0 .\
\
In the wake of serious public concern about adult literacy post-World-War-I, Rudolf Flesch developed one of the first readability scores tailored exclusively for adult reading {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D08C9823-B307-4A94-9219-C0740EF4BF3E"}}{\fldrslt material.}} Alternative readability scores for adults soon followed: In 1948, Edgar Dale and Jeanne Chall developed the Dale-Chall formula for advanced {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D7648057-B61A-42C7-8674-D8F6312E8DD5"}}{\fldrslt readers.}} In 1952, Robert Gunning published his own formula, the Gunning Fog Index, to assist newspapers and popular magazines to improve their {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A58DC841-91AD-45AF-99BA-67BDB8875581"}}{\fldrslt writing.}} G. Harry McLaughlin published his SMOG formula in 1969. In 1976, a study commissioned by the U.S. Navy modified the Flesch Reading Ease formula to produce a modified score known as the Flesch-Kincaid {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7ACAC5FE-7BFA-42E1-B8F9-92AA30088CE0"}}{\fldrslt formula.}}\
In 1953, Wilson Taylor of the University of Illinois published the cloze test. The cloze test is generally considered a better measure of difficulty because it evaluates not the diffiuclty of a wor\
In Flesch's original readability study, he found the Flesch Reading Ease correlated with results from the McCall-Crabbs tests was about 70 percent. READABILITY FOR THE OTHER SCORE\
CLOZE TEST\
\
Flesch describes the test lessons as a "series of 376 passages for children which had been previously graded on the basis of ten comprehension test questions appended to each passage" (1943b, 6). The tests were supposed to teach children how to comprehend many different kinds of reading materials, how to enjoy reading, and how to be motivated and to improve expressing themselves orally. They were called "standard" test lessons because every test would show "how well the normal or typical pupil would read these same lessons" (McCall and Crabbs 1925,\
184).\
The estimated coefficient of correlation of his measure, the Flesch Reading Ease score, with a benchmark measure of text comprehension---the McCall-Crabbs *Standard Test Lessons*---was 70 percent.\
\
\
\
More recent research using other benchmark measures of text comprehension have backed this earlier evidence up. One of the oldest and most commonly used formulas, the Dale-Chall has consistently proven to be a reliable formula for gauging general text difficulty for higher ability readers[#Begeny2014,Hintz2004]. [#Ardoin2005;] find a modest relationship between reading fluency and the four grade-level readability scores, and especially strong evidence in favour of the Gunning Fog readability {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C758B4BF-AB79-4367-8E09-4F44EB331D7B"}}{\fldrslt measure.}}\
\
Other studies have shown that the Flesch Reading Ease accurately---albeit noisily---gauges the readability of sophisticated political discourse[#Beniot2017;], although the correlations they reported are more muted than those found in earlier {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://71FD6E02-B0B3-4609-A2B3-55935DBBE987"}}{\fldrslt studies.}}\
\
The most popular reading comprehension test was the McCall-Crabbs *Standard Test Lessons*. The Reading Ease formula correlated .70 with the McCall-Crabbs criterion\
Most formulas have also been tested against other reading comprehension tests geared more toward adults.\
\
. These lessons have been convenient statistically because there are a large number of reading passages, covering a\
wide range of difficulty, resting upon extensive testing, and providing detailed grade scores.\
were based on collections of text passages that had been ranked according to difficulty based on the average reader's ability to correctly answer several questions meant to test his comprehension. The underlying reading comprehension tests---including the McCall-Crabbs *Standard Test Lessons*, the Ojemann tests and the Gray and Leary tests---\
standardised reading comprehension tests that had previously been administered to a . That is, readability formulas were applied to a large number of text passages which had previously been ranked according to difficulty based on the average number of correct responses \
\
That, a large number of readers were given a passage of text and then asked various questions about that text to determine how well it was understood. Passages of text in which a high percentage of test takers got most of the questions correct are assumed to be "easier"; passages with fewer right answers are assumed to be harder. Readability formulas were then applied to that text and \
The earliest studies showing correlation between readability scores and text comprehension were based on \
McCall-Crabbs *Standard Test Lessons*. These tests involved a series of 376 passages for children, each of which included ten comprehension test questions to evaluate how well the test-taker had understood the piece of text. Grade-level reading ability was calibrated by how many questions were answered correctly---*i.e.*, more correct answers indicated higher reading ability. Klare tested the Flesch Reading Ease and Dale-Chall formulas against 16 standardised passages of the Ojemann tests and the 48 passages of the Gray and Leary tests, all developed for adult readers.\
\
\
\
\
After testing several components against benchmark measures of text comprehension, he eventually settled on a weighted average of sentence length and syllables per {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1906F6DB-CAC6-48B7-A70A-CC6A5D04B4B8"}}{\fldrslt word.}}\
\
\
\
figure out the components of writing that contributed to readability. Flesch picked twenty-one magazines and divided them into five different levels of reading difficulty: Level A was the easiest and contained *Romantic Story*; level B (*e.g.*, *Redbook*); Level C (*e.g.*, *Reader's Digest*); Level E (*e.g.*, *Fortune*); and Level E (*e.g.*, *The American Scholar* and *The Yale Review*. He then counted the number of times several components of writing which had previously been found to correlate with reading comprehension in children were found in the different texts. He found that sentence length, the number of abstract words and the number of affixes had a high predictive value.\
Flesch connected several follow-up analyses using the McCall-Crabbs standardised test questions on reading materials\
In response to those concerns, public librarians, sought to recommend reading material of the appropriate grade level to adults. In an effort to help the large numbers of adults who were unable to read adn to provide the needed research on the area of writing readable books, the American Association for Adult Education formed the Readability Laboratory in 1936.\
In order to determine a way to produce readable material, Rudolf Flesch and the Laboratory's other researchers evaluated the exist\
The earliest measures of readability were simple counts of difficult {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://806745E6-B62B-4B03-812A-48BDE474E7EE"}}{\fldrslt words.}}\
Unfortunately, formulas using word lists had some definite problems when applied to adults. Most word lists had been developed for children. Adults, on the other hand, read more, had more experiences and just knew too many words. Moreover, even if a perfect and accurate word list exists, it still would not tell us which words were difficult to understand because of how they were used or because they were abstract to begin with.\
In response, [#Gray1935;] statistically tested numerous additional components that could be added to word lists to improve readability measures. \
were developed for this purpose. Unfortunately, most of these measures \
\
Though this is not quite the same as a journal\'92s peer-review process, it\'92s not quite a personal Word document uploaded to the internet, either. Because of that, economics working papers are regularly discussed by journalists, academics, and even policymakers before they\'92re formally published in a journal.\
Although this might be an issue if a non-standardised repository of draft papers were used, this is not likely to have a huge confounding effect on papers released as NBER drafts. NBER Working Papers are high profile releases of draft papers before being published in order to encourage discussion and suggestions for revision before publications. However, the long list of acknowledgements on NBER working papers---and, in particular, that overlap with the acknowlegements in the actual paper---suggests that the papers have undergone a thorough form of internal peer review---by friends and colleagues of the authors---before it is released as an NBER working paper.\
\
\
I worry that we cannot conclusively attribute changes in readability that occur between the NBER working paper and the published paper to the referee process. Some plausible alternative explanations are that male and female authors differ in the following ways: (i) how likely it is that they send the working paper out for comments, (ii) who they send the paper to for comments (might women send the paper to women more often, who perhaps are more likely to\
focus on writing quality if they are ex-ante better writers?), and (iii) how they respond to those comments that they do receive.\
\
long before they were released as NBER Working Papers and, combined with the evidence presented in [](#figure7), long before they were submitted to a journal. In additiona, most papers thank several economic congerences and their participants\
The other thing critics brought up is that Doleac and Mukherjee\'92s article is not yet peer reviewed\'97they plan to submit it to journals soon. But this, too, is an important difference between economics and some other types of health research. Economists tend to put out working papers and circulate them among colleagues long before they submit to journals. For example, Doleac and Mukherjee\'92s paper thanks several economic conferences and their participants in its acknowledgments. These colleagues\'97sometimes in pressure-cooker-esque seminars\'97ask questions and make suggestions, after which the paper is revised, then submitted.\
\
Thus, if the data from *
\i Econometrica
\i0 * is indicative of all papers, and we assume that people no longer solicit external feedback---*
\i e.g.
\i0 *, by sending the drafter version out for comments---after submitting to the journal in which it is eventually published, then 
\f0\fs24 \cf3 <$Scr_Cs::2>
\f2\fs28 [](#figure7)
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::2>
\f1\fs28  is strong evidence that the changes authors---and especially female authors---make to their papers is in response to referee feedback.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
One could also include in that designation papers with a female first author. I therefore designate the lead author has he who was listed first in a paper in which authors were listed non-alphabetically or he was listed as the "corresponding author" or "lead author" in the acknowledgements. Unfortunately, however, this added only another 35 (0.38 percent) "female" observations.\
\
Moreover, conducting the analysis in [][Matching] would mean restricting the sample to only those women with at least three 100% female-authored papers; there are only 22, and only an additional 26 women have two. Indeed, 26% of female authors with at least three top publications have always authored with at least one man.
\f1\fs28 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 \
with the introduction of the internet it seems unreasonable to assume that its prior success can be replicated currently. Indeed, if we drop the variables subjected to double-blind review pre-internet and include instead a dummy variable for double-blind review *
\i post
\i0 * internet, we find similar (positive) effects on gender in both the single- and double-blind samples. This evidence is consistent with the evidence presented in 
\f0\fs24 \cf3 <$Scr_Cs::2>
\f2\fs28 [](#table8a)
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::2>
\f1\fs28 ---*
\i i.e.
\i0 *, there is less (or at least no more) evidence of gender bias under double-blind review than under single-blind review.\
\
Single-blind review combined with wide dissemination---particularly on the internet---of NBER working papers make it likely that . \
 NBER working papers high profile (and wide dissemination)\
at most journals Double-blind review---particularly before the internet---may have curbed that. To deal with the issue, 
\f0\fs24 \cf3 <$Scr_Cs::2>
\f2\fs28 [](#table7)
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::2>
\f1\fs28  excludes the 279 affected articles. Here, I consider discrimination in the review process through the lens of the shift from double-blind to single-blind review (or the introduction of the internet). \
\
, I found that the readability gap increased during the period that\
papers underwent double-blind review in an analysis that only looked at the readability of published papers (and did not consider the readability of draft versions of those same periods as is done in this analysis). As shown in ??, however, those results are not robust to including time trends.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>\
\
As can be seen from [](#figure0), *
\i QJE
\i0 * and, especially, *
\i AER
\i0 * implemented double-blind review over a period during which both journals experienced there was a rapid expansion in female authors published in top economics journals. Moreover, *AER* and *QJE* tend to be better written than *Econometrica* and *JPE*, according to [](#tableC3). Thus, the significantly larger effect from [#Hengel2015;] was likely due to confounding 
\f1\fs28 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 \
The gender of an author can be usually inferred from authors' given names. In the case of unisex and certain foreign first names, the high profile nature of NBER researchers and their articles probably mean most referees of these papers are aware of the gender of an author.\
The one thing that might thwart this assumption is double-blind review, particularly before the internet. Two journals---*
\i AER
\i0 * and *
\i QJE
\i0 * employed double-blind review at some point during the time period covered by the data. *
\i QJE
\i0 * used double-blind procedures until 1 June, 2005. *
\i AER
\i0 *'s spell began 1 July, 1989 and ended 1 July, 2011.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 \
---*i.e.*, the probability \
there's a 100 percent chance that solo-female-authored papers were written and/or revised by women; there's a 0 percent chance that a solo-male-authored paper was written and/or revised by women; \
the paper's "female intensity"---*i.e.*, it's proportion of female authors.\
positively related to the proportion of female authors on a paper.\
\
Yet the proportion of papers with at least one female author is much higher---18.8 percent since 1990. Because the sample sizes for 100 percent female-authored papers was so small, [#Blank1990;] used this classification strategy to define "female" papers.\
\
\
 two alternative definitions---only female authors (compared to only male authors) and at least one fema\
\
Prior papers indicate that two-thirds of co-authors describe their working relationships as "collegial"---*i.e.*, authors sharing the work as colleagues. Only a quarter of working relationships were described as "mentoring"---a senior author mentors junior authors---or "directing"---one author has primary responsibility and takes the lead in organising the research.\
co-authors of the same rank tend to share the task of writing and revising the paper \
\
(ii) referees' beliefs about the probability papers are written by female {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://881AA45C-D0AF-40DE-8C8B-62CE31BF7170"}}{\fldrslt co-authors.}} I assume the probability both are true is a linear function of the ratio of female co-authors.\
Nevertheless\
That is, if a paper's female ratio is 25 percent, then 25 percent of the time, (i) and (ii) are true. Thus, gender impacts readability in 25 percent of these papers but has no effect in the remaining 75 percent.\
In mentor-mentee relationships, the tasks are predominately on the shoulders of mentees. Less likely to contribute to the writing of a paper than they would be if co-authoring with a colleague.\
Significant difference between the importance of tasks performed in producing a research paper as a mentor and as a colleague.\
Very important, important, less important\
In mentor-mentee relationships, more important to contribute to writing and revising the paper; in colleague relationships, less important.\
According to the International Committee for Medical Journal Editors, authorship credit should be based only on substantial contributions to all three of the following components: (a) conception and design, or analysis and interpretation of data; and to (b) drafting the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and on (c) final revision of the version to be published.\
I assume authors are granted authorship credit if and only if they have participated sufficiently in the work to take responsibility for the content.\
Unlike the more inclusive measure (at least one female author), female ratio captures the inherent uncertainty from both events: the probability a paper was written by a female co-author is zero or one---and referees' beliefs are presumably correct---when papers are either entirely written by men or women, respectively. Mixed gendered papers, however, are assigned a probability that (i) and (ii) are true based on the proportion of women listed as authors.\
\
25 percent of the time when there is one female author amongst four, 50 percent of the time when half of the authors are female, *
\i etc.
\i0 * Thus, \
This strategy obviously assumes that \
 about whether a woman wrote the paper; (iii) the probability a female co-author is responsible for making editorial changes to the paper during the peer review process; and (iv) the referee's belief about whether a female co-author is responsible for \
the referee\'92s perception of the contribution of a woman to a particular paper. To capture the uncertainty of his view when both men and women co-author together, I opted for the less inclusive continuous measure.\
\
\
We are left with two alternative measures of a paper's gender: consider a paper "female" when at least one author is female or use the ratio of female authors to total authors as a continuous measure of a paper's gender.\
Much of the analysis has been duplicated using the more inclusive measure (at least one female author) and least inclusive measure (only female-authored). The results are generally similar to those presented {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://31BA3BEA-0008-48E0-8A02-CF943E8DCD38"}}{\fldrslt here.}}\
Because the sample sizes for 100 percent female-authored papers was so small, [#Blank1990;] used this classification strategy to define "female" papers.\
with only female names on the paper would be compared to papers \
The most straightforward way to deal with the gender of a co-authored paper is gender in these papers is \
In the case of single-authored papers, it is obvious how to code the gender of the paper---but 56 percent of papers are co-authored. A variety of metrics potentially deal with the gender of these papers: *
\i e.g.
\i0 *, if at least one female name is on the paper, if the primary author is female, or if only female names are on the paper.\
The most straightforward way to \
according to the latter strategy would be compared to papers classified as "male. Unfortunately, however, only 4 percent of papers are predominately female-authored; even fewer (3.5 percent) are authored entirely by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FED720A2-AEFD-4EF3-96DE-670184AA2D4D"}}{\fldrslt women.}} Moreover, when restricting the sample to papers after 1990 or 2000, the figures only slightly improve. Of papers published post-1990, only 5.4 percent are predominantly female-authored; even fewer (4.5 percent) are authored entirely by women. The figures hardly budge when restricting samples to papers published after 2000: 5.7 percent are predominantly female-authored; again, 4.5 percent are authored entirely by women. (See 
\f0\fs24 \cf3 <$Scr_Cs::2>
\f2\fs28 [](#figure0)
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::2>
\f1\fs28  for a breakdown by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://41EE38FD-BB7B-4B47-9EE6-7B842D9C6512"}}{\fldrslt journal.)}}\
\
\
Thus, higher standards in narrow dimensions that fail to contribute to the observed value of output will lower most measures of female productivity and confound gender differences in labour market outcomes. For similar reasons, common performance controls may discount discrimination in equations that relate wages (and other labour market outcomes) to gender.\
\
For similar reasons, common performance controls may discount discrimination in equations that relate wages (and other labour market outcomes) to gender. Controlling for performance is undeniably import; yet just as important is our judgement and measurement of that performance. Higher standards in narrow dimensions that fail to contribute to the observed value of output will lower most measures of female productivity and confound gender differences in labour market outcomes.\
\
The second panel of 
\f0\fs24 \cf3 <$Scr_Cs::2>
\f2\fs28 [](#tableAX1)
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::2>
\f1\fs28  displays the marginal effect of female ratio in draft and published papers. The total gap in the published article is relatively stable---between 2--3 Flesch Reading Ease points
\f3\fs20 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
Consistent with [](#table7), readability may actually decline during peer review. As discussed in [][NBER], this may be an artifact specific to abstracts, which are edited for length in addition to readability. Alternatively, writing (too) well upfront satisfies the review group with the highest initial readability threshold. Because referee reports reveal $s$ (and therefore $\\widetilde R_i^s$), a readability decline after receiving an R&R indicates that a majority of groups have laxer standards. This explanation is consistent with the theoretical model in [][SEUModel].
\f2\fs28 \cf3 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
[](#figureA1)
\f1 \cf0  suggests female economists initially underestimate referees' expectations: without experience, their writing improves during peer {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F9ED84E5-6AD6-4C29-AEA2-8786B4642E52"}}{\fldrslt review;}} with experience, they write more clearly before peer review. Women's draft readability increases between 
\f2 \cf4 $t=1$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f2 \cf4 $t=2$
\f1 \cf0 ---and then again between 
\f2 \cf4 $t=2$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f2 \cf4 $t=3$
\f1 \cf0 . Consequently, women make fewer changes during peer review in 
\f2 \cf4 $t=2$
\f1 \cf0  than in 
\f2 \cf4 $t=1$
\f1 \cf0 ; changes shrink further by 
\f2 \cf4 $t=3$
\f1 \cf0 .\
Women's pattern of behaviour both resembles and differs from men's. Draft and final readability scores for male-authored papers remain relatively constant over increasing 
\f2 \cf4 $t$
\f1 \cf0 . Unlike women's, men's approach does not radically change with experience: they consistently overestimate referee demands pre-peer review to minimise changes made in peer {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C1DABC7E-5B26-413D-BD6E-14C90E84E424"}}{\fldrslt review.}}\
This strategy mirrors women's at later 
\f2 \cf4 $t$
\f1 \cf0 . Economists who anticipate demands are desk rejected less often; economists who don't enjoy more free time, all things {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F633B9DE-F245-42F0-8F80-4CD479084B8A"}}{\fldrslt equal.}} 
\f2 \cf3 [](#figureA1)
\f1 \cf0  implies little---if any---gender difference in this tradeoff. Decisions by junior economists may reflect inexperience, but decisions by senior economists should not. Senior economists are familiar with peer review; their choices express optimal tradeoffs with full information (for discussion and justification, see 
\f2 \cf3 [][SEUModel]
\f1 \cf0 ). 
\f2 \cf3 [](#figureA1)
\f1 \cf0  suggests both men and women sacrifice time to increase acceptance rates.\
\
\
Matches are obviously sensitive to the choice and construction of variables in the first panel, the model used to estimate propensity scores and whether matches are made with or without replacement. Outcomes are not. After controlling for 
\f2 \cf4 $T_i$
\f1 \cf0 , decade, journal and *
\i JEL
\i0 * code, matches using alternative variables (*
\i e.g.
\i0 *, minimum citation counts and minimum institutional rank) and specifications (logit and no replacement) generate similar figures and identical conclusions to those presented in 
\f2 \cf3 [][SEUMatching]
\f1 \cf0 . (Not shown; analysis available on request.)\
\
\
Moreover, the extent that higher standards require time investments and induce broader behavioural adjustments that reduce the quantity of female output, they may even produce superficial productivity measures that mask their effect. \
This conclusion suggests that controlling for productivity in estimates of gender earnings and promotion gaps may underestimate labour market discrimination unless those measures adjust for differences in standards.\
Moreover, the extent that higher standards require time investments and induce broader behavioural adjustments that reduce the quantity of female output, they may even produce superficial productivity measures that mask their effect. \
Performance is important, \
Given women are prone to adjust behaviour in anticipation of these higher standards, even measures that appear highly objective are likely affected by them; estimates of gender gaps in career outcomes that control for performance may therefore underestimate labour market discrimination.\
\
More broadly, these findings suggest that tougher standards in arbitrary dimensions reduce female productivity. They highlight that using performance measures to understand gender gaps in career outcomes likely underestimates---or even altogether misses---instances of gender discrimination in the labour market. Thus narrowly focusing public policies on increasing female productivity---e.g. by encouraging men to shoulder a larger portion of childcare responsibilities or promoting flexible work schedules---may not be sufficient to achieve gender equality in the workforce.\
By meeting discriminatory editorial standards before submission, the readability gap between senior, productive economists could appear independent of peer review in naive estimations.\
\
Earlier in their careers, women know less about referee expectations. [](#figureA1) suggests they *underestimate* those expectations, and, consequently, revise more during peer review. Draft readability at $t=2$ suggests \
make greater revisions during the process. suggesting women adapt behaviour and choices earlier in their career, where the learning curve is steeper. Later in their careers, when they're better informed, women's choices settle into a more stable pattern.
\f3\fs20 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The difference is not significant and the sample of women with 4 or more publications is very small (see [][SEUEmpirical]). Nevertheless, a fall in readability (on average) during peer review is consistent with [](#Theorem1). Writing (too) well upfront satisfies a minority of review groups who discriminate by desk rejecting (relatively) poorly written female-authored papers. Once past desk rejection, however, the review group is "revealed" (recall that the author recognises groups that reviewed his earlier papers even though the identities of the groups' individual members remain unknown to him). In the majority of instances, this reveals that the group is non-discriminatory, so women relax their writing when making revisions. In this case, women's decline in readability between draft and published versions at $t=4\\text\{--\}5$ and $t=6+$ could indicate that only a minority of reviewers discriminate.
\f1\fs28 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
implies that referees and/or editors were less inclined to demand readability edits in 
\f2 \cf4 $t=1$
\f1 \cf0  papers authored by men.\
Data for publications three and up further reinforce the idea that women receive a message in peer review---write well---that men do not. \
\
will be desk rejected less often---and therefore accepted more frequently---than the economist who doesn't.\
In the absence of bias---and assuming identical acceptance rates---senior economists would make identical decisions.\
Specifically,  by female authors coping with the higher standards editors and/or referees impose on their writing.\
Higher standards lead to more changes in peer review[][NBER]. They affect readability before peer review, too[][SEUModel]. \
Since women cope with demands\
Having already established that women face greater referee demands than men, I now investigate how women cope with those demands.\
 As a final exercise, I investigate gender differences in how this tradeoff is made.\
---risking desk rejection---or anticipate demands\
can choose to make changes directly in repose to referee demands *during* peer review. Or they can make changes in anticipation of those demands *before* peer review.\
If I have a high probability of drawing a review group that desk rejects my paper unless it's well written, and initially laxer review groups are just as demanding during the review phase, \
 has exacting standards and an author had an especially high probability of drawing that review group, it makes more sense to meet its standards prior to peer review.\
authors face a As a final exercise, I compare NBER working paper draft readability to the readability of \
\
\
The idea that women are told to write more clearly but men aren't is further reinforced at the e publications three and up, women mostly write well upfront; like men, they make very few changes during peer review. Indeed, for publications four and up, their writing gets slightly worse during peer review. Although this difference is not significant and includes only a small number of authors, this fall is consistent with 
\f2 \cf3 [](#Theorem1)
\f1 \cf0 . Effectively, these women write *
\i too
\i0 * well upfront because they anticipate some non-zero probability of drawing a discriminatory reviewer who desk rejects their papers if not well written. Once past desk rejection, the referee group is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://76D8ACF8-5670-4F6E-8C10-4009D580E8BF"}}{\fldrslt revealed.}} If the review group is not discriminatory, women relax their writing when making revisions. Thus, women's decline in readability between draft and published versions at 
\f2 \cf4 $t=4\\text\{--\}5$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f2 \cf4 $t=6+$
\f1 \cf0  could indicate that only a minority of reviewers discriminate.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs18 \cf5 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf3 [](#tableAX1)
\f1 \cf0  displays the contemporaneous marginal effect of peer review (
\f2 \cf4 $R_\{jP\}-R_\{jW\}$
\f1 \cf0 ) estimated separately for men and women (first panel) and the marginal effect of female ratio in the draft paper and then in the published paper (second panel). Interestingly, without the previous context provided by 
\f2 \cf3 [](#figureA1)
\f1 \cf0 , the first panel of 
\f2 \cf3 [](#tableAX1)
\f1 \cf0  would suggest that the readability gap is declining over increasing 
\f2 \cf4 $t$
\f1 \cf0 ---\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 \
\
Other fields---most notably social psychology---are more active on this topic[see, *e.g.*,\\]\\[][#Steele1995]. Economics has occasionally broached this issue, although generally within the context of identity formation[for a review of existing research, see\\]\\[][#Dee2014].\
\
$e_\{nit\}^s-e_\{nkt\}^s$ converges to 0, so for large enough $t$ [](#EquationCorollary1) and/or [](#EquationCorollary2) predict the direction of $D_\{ik\}$ even when errors remain gender-specific. (See discussions in [][SEUModel] and the next section.)
\f1\fs28 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
This paper makes a curious discovery: female-authored articles in top economics journals are better written. After examining the difference, I conclude that higher standards applied by editors and/or referees are primarily to blame.\
\
Moreover, if this effect were due entirely to women continuing to make mistakes about referee expectations at $t=3$, we should expect that a minority of men are also as sensitive as women---and so the mistakes they make are of a similar magnitude. That is, the mistakes made by the men in panel two fo [](#table10X) would be of a similar magnitude to those in panel one---just that they are made by fewer men. Yet they are not---on average, men that are discriminated against write only 20 percent more clearly than they otherwise would. This is a difference of nine percent. It seems highly unlikely that the women listed in [][AppendixMatchingNames]---a higher proportion of whom are editors and/or assistant editors at the journals in question---would persist in making errors of this magnitude relative to the men listed in [][AppendixMatchingNames].\
\
This paper also suggests a novel technical instrument that may be used to overcome bias inherent in measures of subjective evaluation. In the presence of higher standards, subjective quality measures are themselves biased. I use readability formulas to overcome this problem. Readability formulas are transparent, objective and accurate measures of one component on which papers are evaluated during peer review--writing clarity. Similar tests to expose higher quality work may uncover higher standards in a variety of situations: successful business proposals, published "letters to the editor" or annual report introductions. Readability scores could also be employed to produce more accurate measures of labour market wage gaps---by instrumenting for unobserved bias in the subjective productivity measures themselves. Readability scores have their limitations 
\f2 \cf3 [
\f1 \cf0 see
\f2 \cf3 ][MeasuringReadability]
\f1 \cf0  and their use in this manner applies to just a narrow set of questions. Nevertheless, they appear to be a largely ignored, naturally occurring source of pseudo-experiments relevant to research on gender or racial bias---and differential group treatment, more generally.
\f4 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
- Convergence if and only if signal is informative and agent uses signal to update posterior belief. Asymptotic learning fails if the correct action is not chosen (irrationality).\
- Smith and Sorenson (2000): when individuals observe all past actions and private beliefs are unbounded, information will be aggregated and the correct action will be chosen asymptotically.\
- Bounded beliefs: individuals copy past actions and/or completely ignore their own signals. (Why would men's beliefs be unbounded but women's beliefs bounded?)\
- Agents cannot (a) begin acting identically; (b) be subject to the same costs/rewards, (c) process signals in the same way (rationality), (d) yet end up on diverging paths. Even if we relax (a), and assume agents do not act identically---which does not correspond with what I find---assuming (b) and (c) means agents' paths remain a constant distance from one another.\
- Because it does not appear that women are rewarded differently for better writing (women's acceptance rates are identical to men's and their review times longer), it must be that they have higher costs of writing poorly (again, because acceptance rates are identical to men's, the cost likely comes in more length peer review). This is equivalent to so-called "higher standards".\
- There are two reasonable rewards from writing well (or, conversely, costs from writing poorly). Acceptance rates are higher and/or review times are faster. Compared to men, women do not benefit from either: numerous studies show women are not published at higher rates; my own analysis suggests women's review times are substantially longer. This latter point, especially, indicates female authors are punished more for poorer writing and/or male authors are rewarded more for clearer writing. I find some evidence of both effects. Male-authored papers that are better written do indeed enjoy faster peer review times. Given fewer changes are made to their papers during peer review, this provides a rough (although not causal) indication that better initial writing in male-authored papers shortens the time men spend in peer review. It appears to have much less of an effect for women.\
Women are not rewarded for better writing's acceptance rates are identical to men's but their review times are longer. Thus suggests women are 
\i not
\i0  rewarded for better writing; instead, they are punished for poorer writing.\
- There is no asymptotic learning in networks with non-expanding observations (observe actions of finite subset of actors).\
- When private beliefs are unbounded and the network topology is expanding, then there will be asymptotic learning.\
- Note that female readability starts out identical to men's but then diverges.\
\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \
\
\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++\
With experience, authors' beliefs about the impact of readability on acceptance rates converges to reality, a widening readability gap post experience without higher acceptance rates implies women are held to higher standards in peer review.\
implies women's mistake was actually *not* in writing too clearly, but having earlier not written clear enough. When observed acceptance rates are otherwise identical between similar authors, then a widening readability gap can only be attributed to higher standards.\
and with experience, authors' beliefs about the impact of readability on acceptance rates converges to reality.\
if acceptance rates between men and women are identical\
\
 writing clear enough earlier in their careers\
If, with experience, the gap has widened, it must be caused by higher standards\
So with experience, the readability gap should go away; if it doesn't, it must be caused by higher standards.\
National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) working papers to their final, published versions; the gap is three times larger for the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CC37DF27-A678-409B-9F0F-A11240243ECB"}}{\fldrslt latter.}} While both papers are exposed to many factors that impact readability, only published articles are subject to peer review. By comparing the two, influences unrelated to immediate peer review are isolated from those that are; assuming the former are not correlated with the latter's timing, a widening gap suggests a causal link---and therefore rules out some constant difference between the sexes in how well they write (holding all else equal), it would arise 
\i only
\i0  during the drafting phase---that is, the time before papers are submitted to peer review. I find that this is not the case.\
Second, women do not derive any apparent 
\i benefit
\i0  to writing well. There are two reasonable rewards from writing well (or, conversely, costs from writing poorly). Acceptance rates are higher and/or review times are faster. Compared to men, women do not benefit from either: prior research does not suggest that journal acceptance rates are higher for women {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1701DB54-F3E0-4BF9-AEFF-5B3FDCFDBC90"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 [see, *e.g.*,\\]\\[][#Abrevaya2012,Blank1991,Borsuk2009,Gilbert1994,Lloyd1990]}} nor do women enjoy speedier review times. In fact, my own analysis suggests women's review times are, on average ***
\i\b six months longer
\i0\b0 ***. This estimate is based on submit-accept times at *Econometrica*, is consistent across a range of specifications and, in addition to other factors, controls for motherhood and giving {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://587FEDF5-4943-4EF2-9CFA-18FCC26E2943"}}{\fldrslt birth.}}\
Third, women's writing gradually gets better but men's does not. Between authors' first and third published articles, the gap grows by 12 percent. Evidence does not suggest senior female economists co-author with more women. Nor are initially bad female writers leaving academia. Instead, women appear to get better at writing as their careers progress, whereas men donot . Given that we've already established a causal link between the readability gap and peer review, then this indicates women are receiving a form of positive reinforcement than men are not receiving. That is, men and women are receiving separate signals in peer review.\
Combined with point two, this suggests gender differences in (i) biology/behaviour that manifests itself in peer review---for example, women are more sensitive to referee criticism---as well as (ii) knowledge about the advantages of writing well cannot resolve the gap. In a simple model of Bayesian updating, I show Agents cannot (a) be subject to the same costs/rewards, (b) be rational (i.e., both learn rationally and start off with the same belief sets---either both have bounded beliefs or both have unbounded beliefs) and (c) end up on paths that diverge over time. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf0 Thus, if we assume women are no more or less likely to systematically misinterpret signals, then observing (c) means (a) must be violated. That is, women and men are subject to different costs and rewards of writing well---i.e., they are subject to different standards. Conversely, insisting (a) is true implies women act irrationally.\
Instead, women---and only women---seem to figure out that writing well makes peer review smoother; they write subsequent papers clearer from the start. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \
Higher standards impose quantity vs. quality tradeoffs that characterise many instances of female output. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf0 undoubtedly hurting women\'92s productivity and probably, as a consequence, promotion rates, too.\
 explain academia \'93Publishing Paradox\'94: \
Higher standards impose quantity vs. quality tradeoffs that may may explain lagging female wages and productivity, more generally.
\f1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf0 Peer review is not immune. Using five reliable measures of writing clarity, I show that female-authored articles published in top economics journals are better written than equivalent papers by men.\
Academia's publishing paradox. Justifies lower pay and promotion rates. May account for small fraction of women among assistant, associate and full professors.\
In this paper, I explore a possible explanation for this: women exert more effort writing their papers more clearly, and in general spend longer in peer review.\
Using five reliable formulas to exploit this, I analyse 9,123 article {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4CD3C80B-913F-40BE-98FB-C257FA014C77"}}{\fldrslt abstracts}} published in the *
\i American Economic Review
\i0 * (*
\i AER
\i0 *), *
\i Econometrica
\i0 * (*
\i ECA
\i0 *), *
\i Journal of Political Economy
\i0 * (*
\i JPE
\i0 *) and *
\i Quarterly Journal of Economics
\i0 * {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6482AE4F-E230-4387-9938-F1D7DBB35A3B"}}{\fldrslt (*
\i QJE
\i0 *).}}\
I find female-authored abstracts are 1--6 percent more readable than those by men. Women write better despite controls for editor, journal, year and primary and tertiary *
\i JEL
\i0 * classification; that remains unchanged when proxying for article and author quality. This means the readability gap probably wasn't (i) a response to specific policies in earlier eras; (ii) caused by women writing on topics that are easier to explain; nor (iii) generated by factors correlated with gender but really related to knowledge, intelligence and creativity.\
Combined with point two, this suggests gender differences in (i) biology/behaviour that manifests itself in peer review---for example, women are more sensitive to referee criticism---as well as (ii) knowledge about the advantages of writing well cannot resolve the gap. According to both interpretations, readability essentially diverges because women voluntarily accept the costs of good writing (longer drafting and revision stages) despite receiving no tangible benefit (acceptance rates do not {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://EED07C8F-D402-4FF1-9577-86A59ED7205C"}}{\fldrslt change).}} Initially, this explanation is perfectly plausible; indefinitely, it is not---unless we assume senior female economists (and only senior female economists) are basically acting irrationally.\
Instead, they increase. Between authors' first and third published articles, the gap grows by 12 percent. Evidence does not suggest senior female economists co-author with more women. Nor are initially bad female writers leaving academia. Instead, women---and only women---seem to figure out that writing well makes peer review smoother; they write subsequent papers clearer from the start.\
\
\
Clearer sentences, less jargon and more scrutiny aren\'92t bad things. Added attention reduces discriminatory outcomes{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://585B223C-22C5-41F7-BE8D-97AAE472E6D9"}}{\fldrslt [#Bartos2016].}} It doubtless leads to a better final product: papers that are easier to understand enjoy wider, more diverse readership; closer review catches logical mistakes and leads to fewer factual errors.\
Still, adding robustness checks, clarifying proofs and making sentences even marginally more readable takes {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8DEA54BD-5316-42A3-8373-6FABF0CAC715"}}{\fldrslt time.}} [][AppendixModel] illustrates this idea using [#Bartos2016;]\'92s formative model linking discrimination and attention. The major change is a simple extension that assumes referees pass on to authors some of the cost of evaluating their {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CD0CCB2C-542C-42B1-A7B2-4DBCBA8B4E88"}}{\fldrslt papers.}} This prolongs peer review directly---referees spend more time evaluating women\'92s papers and women spend more time responding---and indirectly---female authors take longer drafting future papers. \
I estimate the direct effect results in female-authored papers spending ***
\i\b six months longer
\i0\b0 *** in peer review. This estimate is based on submit-accept times at *Econometrica*, is consistent across a range of specifications and, in addition to other factors, controls for motherhood and giving {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2DD85BE7-FE34-4D2B-8EB5-46A257DF886B"}}{\fldrslt birth.}} It appears to dominate in papers written by early career academics. In fact, there is very little gender difference in readability in the draft version of an authors' first publication---although a large difference does emerge by the time those same articles are actually published. The indirect effect---i.e., women spending more time upfront drafting their papers---increasingly dominates as women gain experience in peer review.\
In [][xxxx], I look at the indirect effect. I find the direct effect dominates among early career academics; the indirect effect dominates later in their careers. There is very little gender difference in readability in the draft version of authors' first publication---although a significant difference does emerge by the time those articles are eventually published. Initial drafts of women's second publications, however, are already much better written than men's---evidence of an indirect effect---although the still further widens during peer review.\
\
\
\
*******************************************\
\
Additionally, this readability gap widens precisely while papers undergo peer review.\
Because better writing takes effort to compose, it likely prolongs female review time---indeed, I find female female-authored papers spend six months longer in peer review---and probably contributes to lower publishing rates.\
I explore many interpretations---*
\i e.g.
\i0 *, Are women more sensitive to criticism? Is better writing due to risk aversion? Do women's papers deserve more scrutiny because they aren't as good? The only straightforward explanation consistent with the data, however, is that referees apply higher standards to women\'92s writing. Because better writing takes effort to compose, higher standards prolong female review time---by six months at *
\i Econometrica
\i0 *---and likely contribute to lower publishing rates. Tougher standards applied more broadly reduce women\'92s output; ignoring them undervalues female labour and may confound estimates of gender discrimination.
\fs24 \

\fs28 PARAGRAPH ON SPENDING 6 MONTHS LONGER IN PEER REVIEW\
Two possible explanations can account for this gap: either referees subject female-authored papers to added scrutiny, or women choose themselves to exert more effort. Both possibilities imply women spend more time than men on a given task. On the positive side, it increases quality; on the other hand, it reduces quantity. Either could explain academia's "Publishing Paradox". Unequal time spent making revisions leads to unequal time conducting new research; as a result, women write fewer papers.\
Nevertheless, I find the more plausible explanation is indeed because referees subject female-authored papers to greater scrutiny. First, women's writing gradually gets better but men's does not---meaning gender differences in (i) biology/behaviour and/or (ii) knowledge about the advantages of writing well cannot resolve the gap. According to both interpretations, readability essentially diverges because women voluntarily accept the costs of good writing (longer drafting and revision stages) despite receiving no tangible benefit (acceptance rates do not {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2CBCA0AC-F93D-4327-9D70-A064EC32F38D"}}{\fldrslt change).}} Initially, this explanation is perfectly plausible; indefinitely, it is not: wouldn't individual women eventually figure out there's nothing to gain by writing well---and then do it {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://BBECB810-6583-4AC6-A216-A8B98DA17E33"}}{\fldrslt less?}} If so, gender differences in readability should decline as authors gain experience in peer review.\
Instead, they increase. Between authors' first and third published articles, the gap grows by 12 percent. Evidence does not suggest senior female economists co-author with more women. Nor are initially bad female writers leaving academia. Instead, women---and only women---seem to figure out that writing well makes peer review smoother; they write subsequent papers clearer from the start.\
Points one to three provide strong evidence that peer review is at least partially responsible for better writing in female-authored papers. But is it given that female-authored papers invite undue scrutiny? In [][alternatives], I explore several alternative hypotheses---many of which have nothing to do with bias and some that exonerate peer review, too. Among them: Are female economists disproportionately native English speakers? Are female referees the toughest critics, and, if so, are they more likely to review female-authored papers? Do manuscripts written by women deserve more criticism because they aren\'92t as good?\
As [][Alternatives] also illustrates, however, the only straightforward explanation consistent with the data is that referees are disproportionately critical of female-authored papers. Clearer sentences, less jargon and more scrutiny aren\'92t bad things. Added attention reduces discriminatory outcomes{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5548F4A7-095C-433D-896A-9BD72ED119AF"}}{\fldrslt [#Bartos2016].}} It doubtless leads to a better final product: papers that are easier to understand enjoy wider, more diverse readership; closer review catches logical mistakes and leads to fewer factual errors.\
\
\
Still, adding robustness checks, clarifying proofs and making sentences even marginally more readable takes {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9EF1EF52-C4E0-4790-85C2-1C34D38B1219"}}{\fldrslt time.}} [][AppendixModel] illustrates this idea using [#Bartos2016;]\'92s formative model linking discrimination and attention. The major change is a simple extension that assumes referees pass on to authors some of the cost of evaluating their {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1B030DDC-E175-4D13-855C-8ED448C24D06"}}{\fldrslt papers.}} This prolongs peer review directly---referees spend more time evaluating women\'92s papers and women spend more time responding---and indirectly---female authors take longer drafting future papers. \
I estimate the direct effect results in female-authored papers spending ***
\i\b six months longer
\i0\b0 *** in peer review. This estimate is based on submit-accept times at *Econometrica*, is consistent across a range of specifications and, in addition to other factors, controls for motherhood and giving {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B0BFF89F-DDE4-44B5-BF81-76B125641C8F"}}{\fldrslt birth.}} It appears to dominate in papers written by early career academics. In fact, there is very little gender difference in readability in the draft version of an authors' first publication---although a large difference does emerge by the time those same articles are actually published. The indirect effect---i.e., women spending more time upfront drafting their papers---increasingly dominates as women gain experience in peer review.\
In [][xxxx], I look at the indirect effect. I find the direct effect dominates among early career academics; the indirect effect dominates later in their careers. There is very little gender difference in readability in the draft version of authors' first publication---although a significant difference does emerge by the time those articles are eventually published. Initial drafts of women's second publications, however, are already much better written than men's---evidence of an indirect effect---although the still further widens during peer review.\
Spending six more months in peer review may explain academia's "Publishing Paradox". Unequal time spent making revisions leads to unequal time conducting new research; as a result, women write fewer papers. \
undoubtedly hurting women\'92s productivity and probably, as a consequence, promotion rates, too.\
 explain academia \'93Publishing Paradox\'94: \
Higher standards impose quantity vs. quality tradeoffs that may may explain lagging female wages and productivity, more generally. Work that is evaluated more critically *
\i at any point in the production process
\i0 * will be systematically better (holding prices fixed) or systematically cheaper (holding quality fixed). This reduces women's wages---for example, if judges require better writing in female-authored briefs, female attorneys must charge lower fees and/or under-report hours to compete with men---and distorts measurements of female productivity---billable hours and client revenue decline; female lawyers appear less productive than they truly are.
\f1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Yet higher standards impose a quantity vs. quality tradeoff that may contribute to women's lower wages and promotion rates. Work that is evaluated more critically at any point in the production process will be systematically better (holding prices fixed) or systematically cheaper (holding quality fixed). This reduces women's wages and distorts their promotion rates. Because discrimination affects behaviour and choices, it necessarily impacts how accurately we measure their productivity. \
\
\
Stereotypes form for a variety of reasons, and discrimination exists in a plethora of forms---all of which presumably affect how victims {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E30D593F-1915-433C-A67E-B2D4E1D42098"}}{\fldrslt behave.}} Their \
\
It suggests that some "feminine" traits may be more context specific than previously thought. \
\
This quantity vs. quality tradeoff characterises many instances of female output. According to raw numerical counts, women produce less than men. Female academics publish fewer academic journals
\f2 \cf2 [#Ceci2014]
\f1 \cf0 ; female physicians see fewer patients{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0FA9D4DC-61A2-454A-8BC6-FEF2C6032B77"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2 \cf2 [#Bloor2008]}} and submit fewer grant proposals
\f2 \cf2 [#Gordon2009,Klos2013]
\f1 \cf0 ; female reporters write fewer front-page bylines
\f2 \cf2 [#Crozier1999]
\f1 \cf0 ; female novelists produce less nonfiction output
\f2 \cf2 [#Waisbren2008]
\f1 \cf0 ; female real estate agents list fewer homes
\f2 \cf2 [#Trulia2011]
\f1 \cf0 .\
When ranked by narrowly defined outcome measures, however, women generally outperform men. Female students earn better grades
\f2 \cf2 [#Voyer2014]
\f1 \cf0 ; female auditors are more accurate and efficient
\f2 \cf2 [#Chung2001,ODonnell2001,Ittonen2013,Niskanen2011]
\f1 \cf0 ; congresswomen secure more federal funding for their districts, sponsor more legislation and score higher on a composite measure of legislative effectiveness
\f2 \cf2 [#Anzia2011,Volden2013]
\f1 \cf0 ; houses listed by female real estate agents sell for higher prices{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://128D5248-BD9B-4B2B-91FB-AB116814E184"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2 \cf2 [#Seagraves2013,Salter2012];}} patients treated by female physicians are less likely to die or be readmitted to hospital
\f2 \cf2 [#Tsugawa2016]
\f1 \cf0 ; female pilots are involved in fewer fatal accidents{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B1987B56-B04F-464B-B5BC-76285DDB2816"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2 \cf2 [#Vail1986,Bazargan2011]
\f1 \cf0 .}}\
To the extent that higher standards require time investments and induce similar behavioural adjustments that reduce the quantity of female output, they may even produce superficial productivity measures that mask their effect. \
\
women appear to have figured out how well they need to write---and they are doing all the hard work of writing well upfront. This suggests female economists gradually anticipate higher standards *in* peer review---and consequently write future papers more clearly *before* peer review.\
There is no gender difference in readability in the draft version of authors' first publication---although a significant difference has emerged by the time those articles are eventually published. Initial drafts of women's second publication, however, are already better written than men's---although the still further widens during peer review.  \
how stereotypes form or \
the source of discrimination---taste-based, attention, pollution---\
Indeed, many theories could explain *why* women are discriminated against in peer review---taste-based, attention, pollution, or any number of theories on how stereotypes form. The fact that it occurs, however, has important implications on how women behave. \
\
Its findings confirm similar conclusions in research on employee performance reviews, teaching evaluations and online comments---women receive more abusive feedback, less credit for intelligence and creativity and are expected to be more organised, prepared and clear[#Boring,2015,Correll2016,Gardiner2016)\
\
, thereby masking the effect of discrimination. \
Indeed, irrespective of the theory behind *why* referees and/or editors discriminate against women---and there may bewomen are held to higher standards\
Moreover, I find evidence that when facing discrimination, \
\
I find that women not only write more clearly when expected to do so---but also the way they do this can actually make these contortions resemble voluntary choice. This suggests women may modify their behaviour in ways that superficially mask the effect of discrimination by making their contortions resemble voluntary choice. \
\
Many of these differences are undoubtedly influenced by innate gender differences in biology and behaviour. Irrespective of their origin, however, most have intrinsic value that, under normal circumstances should be appropriately rewarded in an unbiased marketplace. Property listed by female real estate agents sell for higher prices; in the absence of higher standards, women would charge more to sell a house. They do not[#Trulia2011]. Patients treated by female physicians are less likely to die or be readmitted to hospital, in the absence of higher standards, visiting a female doctor would cost more. It does not[#XXXXXX]. Congresswomen are better legislators; in the absence of higher standards, they would be elected at higher rates. They are not[#XXXX]. Female-authored manuscripts are better written; in the absence of higher standards, women's papers would be published in academic journals at higher rates. They are not[#Ceci2014].\
\
Or, basically, women don't expect to be treated any differently than men in peer review. Unsurprisingly, then, for the first paper, the gap in readability emerges entirely during peer review. But women are obviously learning that that their papers need to be more readable than they originally expected. So next time around, they write more clearly from the outset. \
directly---referees spend more time evaluating women\'92s papers and women spend more time responding---and indirectly---female authors take longer drafting future papers. Both factors prolong peer review\
The pre- and post-review analysis using NBER working papers provides evidence of the first effect. I find further evidence of the direct effect in review times at *
\i Econometrica
\i0 *, where \
\
\
But assuming authors do not *want* to be poorly informed or oversensitive, their impact on choices declines with experience. the impact of this mistake declines with experience\
 these are probably not states or activities the \
with experience, those mistakes are corrected\
. Holding acceptance rates constant, this implies that a widening readability gap between authors with equivalent e\
women write more readably (and men possibly less so)\
Thus, if women write more readably (and men even less so) after enough time has passed, \
authors who increase readability are motivated entirely by higher acceptance rates\
women may miscalculate referee expectations and misconstrue their reports, but with experience they correct these mistakes. \
If an author has previously written a less readable paper and if she could obtain an identical expected acceptance rate at that same readability, she would.\
Since increasing readability is motivated by an author's belief that it increases acceptance rates,\
 change in readability can only be motivated by an author's belief that it increases acceptance rates. Together these factors imply that if the gap is actually wider after enough time has passed for beliefs to converge---but acceptance rate's aren't---then women because they have to. They'd be rejected, otherwise.\
\
Earlier, we measured the direct effect, which is basically the change in readability that occurs during peer review. This is women expending effort addressing direct referee concerns during peer review. There is also an indirect effect, however, in that \
 I find the direct effect dominates among early career academics; the indirect effect dominates later in their careers. \
It appears to dominate in papers written by early career academics. In fact, there is very little gender difference in readability in the draft version of an authors' first publication---although a large difference does emerge by the time those same articles are actually published. The indirect effect---i.e., women spending more time upfront drafting their papers---increasingly dominates as women gain experience in peer review.\
---and indirectly---female authors take longer drafting future papers. \
Moreover, I find evidence in the indirect effect in a supplemental pre- and post-review analysis using NBER working papers.\
\
The data on draft papers and final papers allows us to identify these two effects over time. We see that men and women draft their papers with identical readability at the beginning of their careers. This indicates that they initially anticipate the same writing standards and they write their papers accordingly.\
\
\
Unequal time spent making revisions leads to unequal time conducting new research; as a result, women write fewer papers. \
Moreover, they that I argue characterise many instances of female output---and may therefore explain lagging female productivity, wages and promotion rates, more generally.\
\
The robustness of these conclusions is obviously sensitive to the assumptions I have made. The two primary identifying assumptions are (i) $t=3$ is large enough to eliminate gender differences in expectations and (ii) $i$ and $k$ are truly {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AC96CC82-BEBC-4EED-92B2-EE1D07095FB7"}}{\fldrslt equivalent.}} But the accuracy of these conclusions also depends on how I have modelled authors' utility. Specifically, authors probably care about getting their papers accepted and they may care about writing well, but their marginal utility from the intersection of the two events---*
\i i.e.
\i0 *, higher utility from writing well *
\i only
\i0 * because the paper is published in a top-four journal (as opposed to field journals or second-tier general interest journals)---is assumed to be negligible. For this reason, the impact of author 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0 's personal utility from writing well is reflected only in the first stage when choosing 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{0it\}$
\f1 \cf0 ; it is otherwise irrelevant for the second phase, when choosing 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{1it\}$
\f1 \cf0 . If, on the other hand, women (and not men) *only* care about readability when their papers are published in the very top journals---as opposed to field journals or second-tier general interest journals---*and* wrote initially more poorly because (i) conditional on receiving an R&R, they overestimated $\\widetilde R_\{it\}$ *but* because of risk aversion simply refused to make the changes---and were pleasantly surprised when they were accepted anyway. But then the next time they are assigned $s$, they know $\\widetilde R_\{it\}$. And this is below some threshold; and they enjoy\
\
\
Women are more risk averse{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://135BB0D4-6A88-4975-8F9A-995F839A9629"}}{\fldrslt [see, *
\i e.g.
\i0 *,\\]\\[][#Borghans2009]}}---could that play a role? Consider revision rounds as lotteries. An author\'92s labour reveals his willingness to pay to reduce risk, so a positive link between risk aversion and better writing implies risk averse individuals exert more effort (on average) to reduce their odds of being {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://50C7D2A7-663E-40BD-861D-849F8A8D3A71"}}{\fldrslt rejected.}} Under these conditions, risk aversion leads to higher acceptance rates, all else equal.\
So if female authors truly are more risk averse than men, their papers would---and, indeed *
\i should
\i0 *---be disproportionately represented in academic journals. This is not the case. To the best of my knowledge, publication outcomes expose no female advantage, anywhere, ever
\f2 \cf2 [
\f1 \cf0 for an overview of the literature, see, *
\i e.g.
\i0 *
\f2 \cf2 \\]\\[][#Ceci2014]
\f1 \cf0 . Meaning risk aversion either doesn't play a role, or conceals acceptance rates that unfairly favour men.\
\
In 
\f2 \cf3 [][Duration]
\f1 \cf0 , I determine the cost of more scrutiny---at least at *
\i Econometrica
\i0 *---female-authored articles take substantially longer to complete peer review.
\i\b \ul \ulc0 \
\
asymmetry from one upsets symmetric criteria applied everywhere else.
\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
It also suggests that experience teaches women to write more readably---and men less so---thus creating or exacerbating the gender readability gap.\
\
Assuming women do not rationally waste time writing so well---and their earlier, more poorly written papers suggest they're happy enough writing less clearly---[](#Theorem1) suggests that external forces beyond women's control is shaping decisions to write so well. To confirm this, however, requires looking at matched pairs for whom all three conditions are satisfied [simultaneously](#table10X).\
\
 don't have to. The payoffs to writing well do not appear to be *
\i symmetrically
\i0 * high. Although women write clearer papers, they aren't published more than {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AF36FC1F-D8C3-4A72-9B5A-6144ED84EBC9"}}{\fldrslt men}}---ruling out the last justification for why women exert the time women spend writing clearer papers (Condition 1, [](#Theorem1). \
\
As discussed in the previous section, every article examined in this paper was published in top economics journals, precluding gender analysis of acceptance rates. Nevertheless, u\
\
Although I cannot directly determine acceptance rates with my data, mean $T$ (lifetime number of publications) do not suggest women are actually *rewarded* for their effort: on average, the women in the sample published 4.53 lar; men had 5.61. Coupled with the discussion in the previous section, thus suggests female-authored papers are accepted no more often than male-authored papers. So 
\f2 \cf3 [](#table9X)
\f1 \cf0  again supports 
\f2 \cf3 [](#Theorem1)
\f1 \cf0 's conclusion that women receive harsher scrutiny or are allocated harder critics in peer review.\
\
Men's readability scores decline as they publish more papers. For women, however, each additional paper is more readable than her last. Effects are statistically significant for four out of five scores.\
\
First: at time 
\f2 \cf4 $t$
\f1 \cf0 , 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f2 \cf4 $k$
\f1 \cf0  are equally accurate about referees' evaluation criteria. Second: If 
\f2 \cf4 $s$
\f1 \cf0  accepts 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0 's paper, it also accepts 
\f2 \cf4 $k$
\f1 \cf0 's paper.
\f3\fs20 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
First authors are those identified in the acknowledgements or listed first when authors are not ordered alphabetically. See [][Data] for more details.
\f1\fs28 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Matches were made using time-invariant factors or variables averaged over 
\f2 \cf4 $t$
\f1 \cf0 . The thresholds referees apply to papers may, however, depend on journal, publication year, co-author characteristics and the signal authors send with their institutional affiliation---not to mention the ratio of female authors. All of these factors vary over $t$. To account for these factors, I estimate authors' readability scores at fixed values of these 
\f2 \cf3 [
\f1 \cf0 variables
\f2 \cf3 ](#EquationMatching1)
\f1 \cf0 .\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs18 \cf5 <!--\\input\{$PPATH/equations/EquationMatching1.tex\}-->
\f1\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0  where 
\f2 \cf4 $\\vect X_\{it\}$
\f1 \cf0  
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0 's time 
\f2 \cf4 $t$
\f1 \cf0  number of co-authors, institutional rank, institutional rank of his highest ranked co-author, year and a dummy variable for each journal.\
I separately estimated 
\f2 \cf3 [](#EquationMatching1)
\f1 \cf0  on female and male authors at 
\f2 \cf4 $t=1$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f2 \cf4 $t=3$
\f1 \cf0 . \
\
\
\
Consider a matched pair for which Conditions 2 and 3 are satisfied, suggesting discrimination against 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0 . The raw estimate of final gender difference in readability is 
\f2 \cf4 $R_\{i3\}-R_\{k3\}$
\f1 \cf0 . This reflects actual discrimination only if author 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0  would otherwise voluntarily choose readability 
\f2 \cf4 $R_\{k3\}$
\f1 \cf0  if the probability of acceptance at that readability were identical to her probability of acceptance at readability $R_\{i3\}$. If $R_\{k3\}>R_\{i1\}$, then this is true: $R_\{i1\}$ forms an upper bound on the choice of readability author $i$ would make in the absence of peer review---*i.e.*, left to her own devices, we know author $i$ would choose some $R\\le R_\{i1\}$. If $R_\{k3\}<R_\{i1\}$, however, then we do not know if $i$ would otherwise voluntarily choose readability $R_\{k3\}$ if the probability of acceptance at that readability were identical to her probability of acceptance at readability $R_\{i3\}$---we only know that if that statement were true, she would choose no higher readability than $R_\{i1\}$.\
The purpose of Condition 2 is subtle. It rules out the possibility that women just intrinsically prefer writing more clearly than men or enjoy a lower cost of writing. Yet any such intrinsic preference or cost explanation defines the minimum readability at which a women is willing to write. Thus, *all* of her papers, including the most poorly written one, is at least this readability level. Because women will always choose a readability level that satisfies this minimum threshold dictated by their preference, any *increase* in readability must be driven by something else---*i.e.*, either their own mis-information or sensitivity or by factors outside their control.\
\
It is also possible to generate a conservative measure of the average effect of discrimination over all matched pairs in which one member satisfies Conditions 2 and 3---and thus, determine whether the average effect leans against men or women. This is the average of the following figure: $$D_i=\\bm1_i\\big(R_\{i3\}-\\max\\left\\\{R_\{i1\},R_\{k3\}\\right\\\}\\big),$$ where $\\bm1_i$ equals 1 if the author is female and -1 if the author is male.\
\
For each author, reconstructed readability scores differ only by experience: $$R_\{i3\}-R_\{i1\}=-\\mu_\{i1\} + \\Delta\\,\\varepsilon_\{i1\}.$$ Between matched pairs, they differ on female ratio *and* preferences:  $$R_\{i3\}-R_\{k3\}=\\beta_1+\\Delta\\,\\alpha_\{ik\} + \\Delta\\,\\varepsilon_\{ik3\}.$$ Assume both conditions are satisfied. But if $R_\{i3\}>R_\{i1\}$, then $i$ $\\alpha_i<\\alpha_k$, and $R_\{i3\}-R_\{k3\}$ underestimates $\\beta_1$. If $R_\{i1\}>R_\{i3\}$ then $\\mu_\{i1\}<0$. If at $t=3$ authors $i$ and $k$ enjoy identical acceptance rates at $R_\{i3\}$ and $R_\{k3\}$ and there were no bias, then they'd also enjoy identical acceptance rates at $R_\{i1\}<R_\{i3\}$. Given his prior decision history, $i$ would prefer to set readability lower than $R_\{i3\}$. The only reason he *wouldn't* is because he *can't*---not without suffer a lower probability of acceptance. Thus, $-\\mu_\{i1\}>0$ is a conservative estimate of $\\beta_1$.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs18 \cf5 <!--\\input\{$PPATH/tables/tex/table11NEW\}-->\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 \
\
[](#Theorem1) does not require that authors are perfectly accurate at $t=3$ nor that by that point, they are (on average) unbiased about $\\widetilde r_\{0it\}$ and $\\widetilde R_\{it\}$. It requires only that the bias is decreasing over time for all $t$ past $t=3$. [](#Corollary1), however, does require $e_\{nit\}\\le e_\{nkt\}$ to ensure [](#EquationCorollary1) and [](#EquationCorollary2) do not overestimate $D_\{ik\}$---although they will still consistent predict the *direction* of discrimination for large enough $t$. (See [](#footnote76).)\
\

\f1\fs28 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The second assumption in [](#Proposition1) is that the states in which $i$ is accepted is a subset of the states in which $k$ is accepted. This is stronger than---and indeed, supplants---Condition 1 in [](#Theorem1). As shown in Appendix X, however, if we relax this assumption and assume only that the weaker Condition 1 is true, then, assuming $i$ is the one held to higher standards, \
\
It reflects tasted-based discrimination, either by review group 
\f2 \cf4 $s$
\f1 \cf0  in stage 1 *
\i or
\i0 * the review group 
\f2 \cf4 $\\overline s\\in\\Sigma_\{A_i\}$
\f1 \cf0  with the strictest stage 0 standards.
\f2 \cf4 \
\
$\\delta_\{ik\}=\\widetilde R_i^s-\\widetilde R_k^s$
\f1 \cf0  measures differing evaluation criteria applied to different authors: review group $s$ subjects author $i$ ($k$) to higher readability standards when $\\delta_\{ik\}>0$ ($\\delta_\{ik\}<0$).\
When $i$ and $k$ are arbitrary authors, a positive $\\delta_\{ik\}$ could reflect legitimate evaluation criteria related to the topic, novelty and quality of $i$'s work.\
If 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f2 \cf4 $k$
\f1 \cf0  are arbitrary authors,  applied to their work. Between equivalent authors, 
\f2 \cf4 $\\delta_\{ik\}$
\f1 \cf0  measures discrimination: against $i$ when 
\f2 \cf4 $\\delta_\{ik\}$
\f1 \cf0  is positive; against 
\f2 \cf4 $k$
\f1 \cf0  when 
\f2 \cf4 $\\delta_\{ik\}$
\f1 \cf0  is negative.\
\
\
is the difference in standards applied to 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0 's papers compared to 
\f2 \cf4 $k$
\f1 \cf0 's. When 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f2 \cf4 $k$
\f1 \cf0  are equivalent authors, then a positive 
\f2 \cf4 $\\delta_\{ik\}$
\f1 \cf0  reflects discrimination against 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0 ; a negative 
\f2 \cf4 $\\delta_\{ik\}$
\f1 \cf0  suggests discrimination against 
\f2 \cf4 $k$
\f1 \cf0 .\
\
$\\widetilde R_i^s$ depends on the topic, novelty and quality of papers written by author $i$. Assuming $i$ and $k$ write equivalent papers,\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs18 \cf5 <!--\\input\{$PPATH/equations/equationMatching4.tex\}-->
\f1\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 where $\\delta_\{ik\}$ is the the degree to which referees and/or editors apply higher standards to $i$ or $k$ that have nothing to do with the topic, novelty or quality of the papers written by either author. A positve $\\delta_\{ik\}$ indicates discrimination against $i$; a negative $\\detla_\{ik\}$ means $k$ is discriminated against.
\f2\fs18 \cf5 \
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \
\
<!--\\input\{$PPATH/equations/equationMatching3.tex\}-->
\f1\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 and $R_i^\\star$ is the $R$ that solves $\\phi_i'(R)=c_i'(R)$---\\textit\{i.e.\}, the readability level $i$ would choose in the absence of earning any utility from acceptance; as shown in the proof of~\\autoref\{Theorem1\}, it forms a lower bound on $r_\{0it\}$ and $R_\{it\}$ for all $t$. \
\
Testing [](#Theorem1) is simply a matter of testing each condition individually on equivalent pairs. Discrimination exists whenever Conditions 1--3 are satisfied. If the number of women who satisfy all three conditions is significantly larger than the number of men, then women are discriminated against more when compared to equivalent men.
\f4 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
These results strongly suggest a causal interpretation of peer review's impact on the gender readability gap. According to all five scores, the readability of female-authored papers grew relative to male-authored papers precisely when these papers were undergoing peer review; the difference is highly significant for two scores and weakly significant for a third. When explicitly controlling for papers' draft readability, the readability gap persists and is highly significant for all five scores. Although it is premature to specify the exact mechanism that induces the gap's formation, these results nevertheless provide strong evidence that the mechanism emerges during peer review.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Determining whether authors are native English speakers would be time-consuming, yet feasible; however, it is not clear how or even if native speakers write clearer than those that are non-native but highly fluent---and most of the authors in the data would fall in one of these two categories. Nevertheless, fluency is presumably related to clarity. Unfortunately, I do not know how to determine author fluency at the time articles were submitted to journals without access to a time machine, a lot of money and the willingness of 7,241 economists to sit a TOEFL exam. But I'm open to suggestions.
\f4\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs28 \cf0 Extra scrutiny leads to better papers but isn't without cost. Revisions are expensive, time consuming and and disrupt other research\cf2 [for a discussion, see\\]\\[][#Gans1994]\cf0 . 
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0  [#Gans1994;] also point out that styles change: George Akerlof found it difficult to publish his 1970 paper "The Market for 'Lemons'" due to its "readable" style because "mathematical rigour" was then in fashion. Nevertheless, despite sometimes preferring mathematics, journals have probably always frowned on any unjustifiably complicated prose that is present.
\f4\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs28 \cf0 Of course, these estimates establish only correlations; causality requires referee reports---which I do not have. Nevertheless, but by process of elimination, I show that the most straightforward (and plausible) interpretation is that female-authored papers *
\i are
\i0 * subject to more scrutiny in that 
\fs24 \

\fs28 Working paper readability is unsurprisingly highly correlated with a published article's readability, but explicitly controlling for it has little impact on gender differences---women's papers remain 2--4 percent better written.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
Although gender has no apparent impact on journal acceptance rates, my paper suggests it nevertheless has an important impact on referee feedback. 
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
While the question of gender differences in peer review feedback may be new, the general question of whether women receive harsher feedback is not. The findings in this paper confirm conclusions from recent research on employee performance reviews and teaching evaluations.
\fs24 \

\fs28 The contribution of this paper is threefold. Its primary contribution is to shed light on the peer review *process*. To the best of my knowledge, my study is the first not only to suggest bias could exist in the process despite its absence in the outcome, but also to document such evidence.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
First study of process. to the best of my knowledge, it is the first study to document evidence of gender bias in the peer review process. As mentioned earlier, gender has no apparent impact on journal acceptance rates. But a gender neutral outcome does not preclude a gender neutral *process*---and to the best of my knowledge, my paper is the first to suggest it. Determining whether female economists are unfairly scrutinised in referee reports suffers from several identification issues, chief among them the fact that accessing those reports is impossible thanks to the privacy ensconced in peer review. To circumvent this limitation, my paper notes that *if* women are subject to greater scrutiny, and that added scrutiny.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
I concentrate on the third hypothesis: do reviewers require clearer, more concise writing from women than they do men? For, if referees hold female- and male-authored papers to identical standards, the latter should be just as coherently written as the former. My identification strategy is effectively a process of elimination. I first establish that the readability gap exists. I next establish a causal link between the timing of peer review and formation (or widening) of the gap. Finally, I document numerous stylised facts about the gap that a coherent theory would need to account for.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
Given the well-documented human tendency to discount female competency, it should certainly not be used as proof that the wider system is completely fair.
\fs24 \

\fs28 Given the well documented human tendency to discount female competency, it is reassuring to know that at least journal acceptance rates are gender neutral. But as this paper illustrates, a gender neutral outcome does not preclude bias in the process---and it should not be used as a definitive proof that the wider system is completely fair. Instead, what it highlights is a neutrality precisely where neutrality is easy to measure but non-neutrality where it isn't. Other research has illustrated that neutrality is quickly and easily achieved when measurement is easy and monitoring is frequent. The findings in this paper support those conclusions---and suggests that to really root out bias, we need to improve monitoring and transparency in the peer review process, possibly by adopting open review, as discussed in [][p3openreview].
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
I believe it is the first to identify group differences using readability scores. As discussed in [][p3measuring_readability], these scores are highly correlated with reading comprehension, cheaper than audit studies and randomised controlled trials and arguably more objective than survey data. Using readability in this context obviously applies to a narrow set of research questions and cannot replace these traditional methods; they nevertheless reflect a complementary research tool that untaps a largely ignored, naturally occurring source of pseudo-experiments. A similar approach may (or may not) uncover similar group differences in business proposals, letters to the editor printed in newspapers, student essays, etc.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
Only 13 papers were written by women with young children, nine of whom gave birth during peer review
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Six more months finding male co-authors---at least in the individual (and therefore anecdotal) recent experience of two women instructed by their referee to "find one or two male biologists to work with (or at least obtain internal peer review from, but better yet as active co-authors)" to prevent the paper from "drifting too far away from empirical evidence into ideologically biased assumptions"[#Bernstein2015].
\f4\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs28 \cf0 Unbiased decisions may be inversely related to the decision maker's belief in his own neutrality.
\fs24 \

\fs28 In several surveys female academics report bias from their superiors, peers and students\cf2 [see, *e.g.*,\\]\\[][#Williams2015]\cf0 . 
\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 In fact, there is no significant gender difference in abstract readability for authors' first publication in the data---papers initially composed without prior exposure to top journals' refereeing process. This finding further supports a causal link to peer review. Since readability scores are more gender neutral for first time publications, the gap is unlikely fully explained by either the residual impact of stricter writing standards for women at an earlier stage in their education or inherent gender differences in writing clarity. For, if either were true, a significant persistent gender difference should be present regardless of previous publication counts---and especially in the one with the largest sub-sample.
\f4\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 \
<!--\\label\{fn3\}-->Applying [](#p3equation1) to several increasing, convex transformations of the female ratio and restricting the sample to only male authors supports this conclusion: coefficients on the transformed variables are generally highly significant and as large (or larger) than the equivalent effect for women (see Online Appendix).
\f4\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs28 \cf0 \
Given the average number of words per sentence decreases during peer review but as a fraction of total word count, syllables, polysyllabic words and difficult words rise, peer review has an uncertain impact on four out of five readability scores. Here I find a pos
\fs24 \

\fs28 Other assessments of peer review's impact on papers' readability scores have found a positive impact; for the Flesch Reading Ease and Dale-Chall scores, [](#p3table7) suggests a negative effect---at least for men. The Flesch-Kincaid, Gunning Fog and SMOG scores are positive. 
\fs24 \

\fs28 For women, however, a combination of their larger fall in words per sentence coupled with greater cuts in hard words relative to hard words means during peer review, readability scores universally increase for female-authored papers; that increase is significant for the majority of scores.
\fs24 \

\fs28 Because women cut more hard words than men, readability scores for female-authored papers universally increase, and that increase is 
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
\
significant for the majority of scores.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
---and again the drop is steeper for women. The hard word count to total word count ratio actually increases: total abstract word count falls more than hard word counts do, *i.e.*, simpler words are more likely to be cut than are hard words. Because women delete proportionally more 
\fs24 \

\fs28 Because total abstract word count falls more than hard word counts do, however, the hard word count to total word count ratio increases.
\fs24 \

\fs28 ---but actually increases hard word count to total word {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F3B0E623-4ADA-45C8-B033-9100F3749E40"}}{\fldrslt count.}} This occurs because total abstract word count falls more than hard word counts do.
\fs24 \

\fs28 and may reflect the fact that abstracts are edited also for length.
\fs24 \

\fs28 Peer review unambiguously shortens sentences---although again, the drop is steeper for women. For both men and women, however, it may actually increase the three estimates of "hard" words to total words in panel two. This likely occurs because abstracts are edited not just for readability, but also for length. Because the fall in total word count is greater than the fall in the number of hard words, these ratios increase during peer review. Because women are still deleting a larger proportion of difficult words relative to men, 
\fs24 \

\fs28 although, again the drop is steeper for women.
\fs24 \

\fs28 Papers written by women, however, undergo the most changes. Women's sentence, character and word counts fall by 16--18 percent more than do men's; syllables, polysyllabic and difficult words fall by 6--16 percent {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A2E1E6E3-B699-4F06-BE75-2A5D072A037C"}}{\fldrslt more.}}
\fs24 \

\fs28 The fact that paper's don't universally improve is due to 
\fs24 \

\fs28 Abstracts may be extensively edited during peer review, but readability scores adjust by somewhat less than the textual components used to calculate them. This likely reflects the particular nature of abstracts, which are edited not only for readability, but also for length. When the fall in 
\fs24 \

\fs28 The fall in syllables and so-called "difficult" words is proportionately less than the fall in word count. Because four of the five scores are functions of "difficult" words per total word count, the aggregate effect is ambiguous. According to [](#p3figure2), poorly written draft papers emerge from peer review with higher readability scores (above the 45 degree line); abstracts that were already well written may come out with slightly lower scores (below the 45 degree line). Nevertheless, [](#p3figure2) also highlights that f
\f5\fs32 emale-authored published papers are consistently more readable than they were as working papers relative to male-authored papers.
\f4\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f5\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs28 \cf0 Female academics are less likely to make tenure, take longer when they do and earn much less than their male peers\cf2 [#Bandiera2016,Ceci2014,Ginther2004,Sarsons2015,Weisshaar2014]\cf0 . One culprit is productivity. 
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
More generally, this study augments recent research linking gender pay and promotion differentials to productivity by showing men are held to lower evaluation standards. As expected, women adjust to this favouritism by raising the quality of their output, thereby increasing the time required to complete a task. If the marginal cost of this adjustment exceeds its benefit, female productivity will decline. 
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
These statistics are uncomfortable, but their causes are myriad: lower publishing rates, career choices, motherhood and, probably, bias. In lab experiments women are subject to tougher standards. Their qualifications and ability are underestimated\cf2 [#Foschi1996,Grunspan2016,Moss-Racusin2012,Reuben2014]\cf0 . Female-authored manuscripts are evaluated more critically\cf2 [#Goldberg1968,Krawczyk2016,Paludi1983]\cf0 ; when collaborating with with men, women are given less credit\cf2 [#Heilman2005,Sarsons2015]\cf0 .
\fs24 \

\fs28 Peer review is not immune. Using five reliable measures of writing clarity, I show that female-authored articles published in top economics journals are better written than similar papers by men; the simplest interpretation is that editors and referees expect clearer, more direct writing from women. Because better writing takes effort to compose, higher standards prolong female review times---by six months at *
\i Econometrica
\i0 *---and may be a fundamental factor behind lower publishing rates.
\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f5\fs32 \cf6 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs28 \cf0 Policy has responded by encouraging more flexible work hours, better paid and longer maternity leave and greater nursery care options. These policy responses are important; but the analysis of submit-accept times suggests women without any family constraints take the longest in peer review. This suggests current policy interventions may have very little impact on the gender and earnings gap in academia. To the extent that women face similar higher standards in other high-skilled occupations, these findings therefore suggest such policy interventions will do little to increase female representation in senior positions. This emphasis on schedules and child-rearing has shifted focus from cases of actual discrimination witnessed heretofore mainly in the lab---women's qualifications are underestimated, they are evaluated more critically and when collaborating with men, women are given less credit---to external factors independent of the firm. To the extent that it has highlighted the challenges and responsibilities hoisted on the typical working mother, it may even have unintentionally reinforced the gender wage gap by attributing pay differentials caused by discrimination to external factors beyond the firm's controls, effectively creating a convenient justification for lower wages that may actually have been caused by discrimination.
\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f5\fs32 \cf6 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs28 \cf6 The gap forms dynamically at both the author- and article-levels---it grows between first draft and final publication and over the course of women's careers---preventing factors fixed in either direction from entirely resolving the difference. This rules out inborn advantages and one-off improvements in response to external circumstances unrelated to peer review.
\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Financing obstacles decline. When the "correct" decision is liquidation, however, judicial mistakes have precisely the opposite effect: more accurate judges correspond to more lenient lending conditions.
\fs24 \

\fs28 that the most informative signal is not always the ideal signal
\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 To do\
\
1. Space at beginning of paragraph => text substitution for <!--\\noindent-->\
2. Format proofs\
\
2. Devise term for potentially cash flow/balance sheet insolvent firms.\
3. Ensure changes to W, V and Y are consistent throughout text.\
4. Create an annex explaining gory detail of equations.\
\
5. Fix proofs.\
6. Rewrite introduction.\
7. Rewrite literature review.\
8. Create the following extensions:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strike \strikec0 	a. Over borrowing if Z<0\strike0\striked0 \
	b. Balance sheet insolvent: D-(X+K2)\
	\strike \strikec0 c. Long term contract.\strike0\striked0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 More generally, the impact higher standards has on gender productivity gaps suggests caution in interpreting any estimates of wage discrimination stemming from equations relating earnings to gender, even (perhaps especially) with a large set of variables designed to control for differences in productivity---or, indeed, in any estimates of labour market discrimination.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
This raises concerns about ignoring higher standards in wage equations that control for productivity.
\fs24 \

\fs28 More generally, the impact higher standards has on gender productivity gaps suggests caution in interpreting any estimates of wage discrimination stemming from equations relating earnings to gender, even (perhaps especially) with a large set of variables designed to control for differences in productivity. 
\fs24 \

\fs28  six-month gap in peer review times *still* underestimates the cost to women for higher standards.
\fs24 \

\fs28  Here, this finding suggests higher standards increase how much time women spend writing papers even before having to spend six more months in peer review. Thus, a six-month gap in review times may *still* underestimate the time tax women pay for higher standards.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
\
lengthen the time between a paper's inception and publication beyond inducing a six-month longer 
\fs24 \

\fs28 higher standards reduce female productivity beyond the 
\fs24 \

\fs28 a six-month gap in review times *still* underestimates how much the impact higher standards have on 
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
productivity measures are further distored as women pre-emptively alter behaviour in response to hightened expectations.
\fs24 \

\fs28 This suggests productivity measures are further distorted as women pre-emptively alter behaviour in response to heightened expectations. Combined with women's surprising sensitivity to higher standards, 
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
women address higher standards before peer review even starts.
\fs24 \

\fs28 higher standards also impact how well women women allocate time and effort outside of peer review.
\fs24 \

\fs28 a portion of the effort women put into addressing higher standards occurs before their papers are even submitted.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
\
My evidence also indicates higher standards have subtle, indirect effects on female productivity. I find peer review induces women to draft future papers more clearly. This suggests not only that women are highly sensitive to referee criticism, but also that they adjust behaviour indirectly to deal with them
\fs24 \

\fs28 also indicates that past experience with peer review induces women to draft future papers more clearly from the start. This finding suggests women 
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
\
even in a very controlled and highly scrutinized environment, these can be biased against minorities.  within a high-skilled, professional environment while cataloging a mechanism---higher standards---for why this occurs.
\fs24 \

\fs28 Disadvantaged players threw pitches that required less discretion to interpret; advantaged players\'92s needed more. Because the latter category are harder to hit, advantaged pitchers gave up fewer runs per game---a common metric of pitching performance. Thus disadvantaged (usually minority) pitchers appeared less skilled than they actually were. An important contribution of this paper is to confirm this conclusion in the context of gender discrimination within a high-skilled, professional environment.
\fs24 \

\fs28 They found calls by home plate umpires expressed 
\fs24 \

\fs28 home plate umpires made racially biased calls in low-scrutiny settings; disadvantaged pitchers respond to these situations by throwing more conspicuous strikes. An important contribution of this paper is to confirm both conclusions in the context of gender discrimination in a previously unmonitored, high-skilled, professional environment.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
 and reduces research output, academia's benchmark for pay and promotion. Thus while performance may be an important to explaining the underrepresentation of women in economics, at least equally important is how we judge that performance. 
\fs24 \

\fs28 Moreover, women's permanent behavioural adjustment accumulates at a rate of X% per paper, meaning the gender readability gap mirrors wage dynamics in many high-skilled occupations[#Bertrand2009]. Higher standards may therefore contribute to women's general underrepresentation in senior positions.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
\
\
Moreover, my results suggest a possible link between higher standards and the gradual increase of the gender wage gap with age. I find the readability gap does not decline with seniority---*i.e.*, women are subject to higher standards throughout their careers. By limiting the rate at which women accrue publications, they generate a wage and promotion gap that widens as economists age.
\fs24 \

\fs28 This limits the rate at which women accumulate publications, and leads to a widening gap in accrued publications Because academic pay is generally determined by researchers\'92 aggregate publication counts, this phenomena may explain why the gender wage and promotion gap is widest between well-published, senior economists.
\fs24 \

\fs28 potentially explains why academia\'92s publication gap is widest between well-published, senior economists. Because pay in academia is generally determined by publications accumulated over an academic\'92s career
\fs24 \

\fs28 This potentially explains both why the 
\fs24 \

\fs28  and generates the widest publication gap between well-published, senior economists.
\fs24 \

\fs28 gender productivity gaps are widest between well-published, senior economists, because differences in standards prevent women from accumulating more publications.
\fs24 \

\fs28  women must contend with higher standards throughout their careers---and that translates into a widening
\fs24 \

\fs28 This indicates that female economists are subject to a constant difference in writing standards over the course of their careers---which translates into a a widening 
\fs24 \

\fs28 , then the gap between male and female productivity will widen
\fs24 \

\fs28 If higher writing standards mean female economists take twice as long to write a paper, then their wage growth will be twice as slow as men, unless pay and promotions fairly compensate for both publication quantity and writing quality.
\fs24 \

\fs28 As I show in [][p3Experience], the readability gap grows by X% for each new paper a woman writes because women accumulate permanent improvements in how well they write. This gradual progression indicates that women incur *constantly* higher standards throughout their careers---*i.e.*, they do not benefit *at all* from lower standards as they gain experience. If constantly 
\fs24 \

\fs28 Frustration may also lead women to drop out of the labour market
\fs24 \

\fs28 it\'92s widest between well-published, senior economists---mirroring wage dynamics in many high-skilled occupations
\fs24 \

\fs28 mirrors wage dynamics in many high-skilled occupations[#Bertrand2009]---the gap is particularly wide between well-published, senior economists---suggesting their accumulative impact plays a role in women\'92s \'93glass ceiling\'94.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
permanently improve their writing in response to referee criticism---and that accumulates at a rate of X% per paper. The analyses in [][p3NBER] and [][#p3Experience] suggest female-authored drafts are already better written before peer review even starts; the gap is particularly wide between well-published, senior economists. This finding suggests women write better in anticipation of higher standards yet to come. Thus higher standards may prolong peer review indirectly as women write more clearly prior to submitting. This increases the time required to write a paper. Female productivity again declines.
\fs24 \
\

\fs28 My findings suggest that gender discrimination can crop up in surprising and subtle ways. It also suggests that until we no longer see this type of discrimination in the lab, we should assume it still exists, it has just manifested itself in areas we have yet thought to look in.
\fs24 \
\

\fs28  re suffers from a form of attention discrimination in so-called "lemon-dropping" markets---*i.e.*, markets in which the average candidate is acceptable. ---in a recent model by[#Bartos2016;]. find applicants of a particular sex or ethnic group are more heavily scrutinised either because employers dislike them (simple discrimination), believe they are less productive (statistical discrimination) or cannot as accurately interpret their signals (screening discrimination). The results from my field experiment supports these conclusions. I extend their work by suggesting an employers' tende
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
With respect to the mechanisms through which discrimination emerges, this study most closely resembles work by[#Parsons2011;] on Major League Baseball umpires. They found home plate umpires made racially biased calls in low-scrutiny settings; disadvantaged pitchers respond to these situations by throwing more conspicuous strikes. An important contribution of this paper is to confirm both conclusions in the context of gender discrimination in a previously unmonitored, high-skilled, professional environment.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
My findings suggest these gaps will endure in every profession unless standards for women align with men's or women are fairly rewarded for raising them.
\fs24 \

\fs28 Higher writing standards improve quality but also lengthen the time between a paper's inception and publication, thereby limiting the number of papers its author can write. 
\fs24 \

\fs28 My evidence also indicates women write better in anticipation of higher standards yet to come, indicating performance m
\fs24 \

\fs28 Performance is important, yet it is also important how we judge performance. If higher standards for female output persists in narrow dimensions without contributing to the value of that output, this will lower female productivity
\fs24 \

\fs28 Given women are prone to adjust behaviour in anticipation of these higher standards, even measures that appear highly objective are likely affected by them; estimates of gender gaps in career outcomes that control for performance may therefore underestimate labour market discrimination.
\fs24 \

\fs28 Longer reviews limit the number of papers a woman can write in her lifetime.
\fs24 \

\fs28 This increases time between a paper's inception and its publication and limits the number of papers a woman can write. Assuming research productivity measures do not commensurately reflect higher standards, female productivity will remain artificially low. This may resolve academia's "Publishing Paradox".
\fs24 \

\fs28 This paper sheds light on gender differences in productivity.
\fs24 \

\fs28 Lower productivity due to higher standards provides a novel explanation for women's underrepresentation in economics departments. Mirroring most professions, female economists are less likely to make tenure, take longer when they do and earn much less than their male peers[#Bandiera2016,Ceci2014,Ginther2004,Sarsons2015]. These patterns persist despite appropriate controls for individual and work characteristics, and for at least a decade, they nave not declined. 
\fs24 \

\fs28 I find papers by both sexes are altered during peer review; the changes made to female-authored papers, however, are far more substantial and are positively correlated with the length of time spent in peer review
\fs24 \

\fs28 The results demonstrate that a gender neutral outcome does not preclude a gender neutral *process* that can still bias the outcome in unintended ways.
\fs24 \

\fs28 This conclusion indicates that instances of gender discrimination may have been underestimated in the past.\

\fs24 \

\fs28 This conclusion suggests that controlling for productivity in estimates of gender earnings and promotion gaps may underestimate labour market discrimination unless those measures adjust for differences in standards.
\fs24 \

\fs28 The readability formulas used in this analysis provide a transparent, objective and accurate measure of higher standards---albeit in only the narrow dimension of writing clarity.
\fs24 \

\fs28 This increases the time between a paper's inception and publication and decreases the number of papers women can write. Assuming expending effort on writing well is not commensurately rewarded in measures of research productivity, female productivity will appear lower than it is.
\fs24 \

\fs28 If higher standards for female output do not increase its value---*e.g.*, better writing does not impact tenure and pay decisions---female productivity will decline. 
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
Unless women are accurately compensated for this tax on their time and resulting quality of their output, they will appear less productive---an obvious disadvantage when employers rely on imperfect measures to make hiring and promotion decisions. 
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 Alternatively, if clients tolerate fewer grammatical errors in female-authored legal briefs but do not pay more for those briefs, female lawyers will either reduce their fees or bill fewer hours than they actually worked, both key performance indicators in the legal industry.
\f4\fs24 \

\f3\fs20 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs28 \cf0 Referee criticism prompts clearer drafts of future papers
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
While performance is important, what's also important is how we judge performance. The readability formulas used in this analysis are transparent, objective and accurate measures of writing clarity. An important advantage of readability formulas is that they establish an objective measure of quality that changes with referee subjectivity. Publication in a top economics journal is a transparent and comprehensive indicator of performance. Combining these measures therefore produces a productivity measure that transparently reflects the *actual* productivity of women. Such a measure may prove a potent instrument to correct for estimates of gender gaps in career outcomes that control for performance.
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Finally, this paper contributes to research that women are held to different---usually higher---standards than men as well as broader empirical work on the negative implications of stereotypes.
\fs24 \

\fs28 This research also adds to other recent studies that have shown that women are held to different, usually higher, standards than men in the workplace. Although writing standards are the focus here, prior research suggests women and men are held to separate standards beyond this narrow dimension.
\fs24 \

\fs28 This research also contributes to the recent research on the impact of stereotypes. Its findings confirm similar conclusions in research on employee performance reviews, teaching evaluations and online comments---women receive more abusive feedback, less credit for intelligence and creativity and are expected to be more organised, prepared and clear\cf2 [#Boring2015,Correll2016,Gardiner2016]\cf0 .
\fs24 \

\fs28 These findings also emphasise the role transparency and monitoring play in reducing discrimination. Journal acceptance rates are easy to measure and frequently auditing; both factors foster accountability, which in turn encourages gender neutrality[#Foschi1996]. Indeed, prior investigations suggest acceptance decisions are genuinely bias-free {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8CE8986A-99A1-4E4B-89AC-6727A4687FFB"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 [see, *e.g.*,\\]\\[][#Abrevaya2012,Blank1991,Borsuk2009,Gilbert1994,Lloyd1990]\cf0 .}} The content of referee reports however, is subject to much less scrutiny; referees have fewer incentives to suppress bias.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
My findings suggests these gaps will endure unless standards for women align with men's or women are fairly rewarded for raising them. 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Women in many high-skilled professions appear less productive than men[#Ceci2014,Xie2005,Ecklund2011,Azmat2016]. Unfortunately, there are relatively few studies that provide compelling explanations for these productivity differences: productivity gaps remain despite accounting for children, responsibilities and hours worked.
\fs24 \

\fs28 Instead, this paper suggests that academia's primary yardstick of productivity---the number of articles published in top journals---is distorted during peer review. Using several objective measures of writing quality, I show that editors and referees in top economics journals expect clearer, more direct writing from women. As a consequence, two factors emerge to reduce female productivity: (i) female-authored papers spend more time in peer review; and (ii) women start writing subsequent papers clearer upfront in anticipation of referee criticism.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
More broadly, these findings suggest that tougher standards in arbitrary dimensions reduce female productivity. They highlight that using performance measures to understand gender gaps in career outcomes likely underestimates---or even altogether misses---instances of gender discrimination in the labour market. Thus narrowly focusing public policies on increasing female productivity---e.g. by encouraging men to shoulder a larger portion of childcare responsibilities or promoting flexible work schedules---may not be sufficient to achieve gender equality in the workforce.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 women may modify their behaviour in ways that superficially mask the effect of discrimination by making their contortions resemble voluntary choice.
\f4\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \
Indeed, under these conditions---properly addressing referee concerns increases one's acceptance odds, and women more consistently and accurately address those concerns---female-authored papers *should* enjoy higher acceptance rates.  Thus *either* ignoring referee concerns has no consequence
\fs24 \

\fs28 Yet comparisons between 
\fs24 \

\fs28 Indeed, if women are better at addressing referee concerns, their papers *ought* to be accepted at higher rates. Since there is no evidence that 
\fs24 \

\fs28  Failing to address referee concerns is effectively a lottery: I benefit by saving time, but lose by suffering a higher probability of being rejected during a revise and resubmit
\fs24 \

\fs28 Responding to referee requests can be seen as a lottery: if I address those concerns, I increase the probability my paper is eventually accepted but also lose time in addressing those concerns. A female strategy \
\
Instead, women---and only women---apparently figure out that better writing makes peer review smoother; they write subsequent papers clearer from the start. This evidence is consistent with higher standards.\
\
There is no evidence selection effects are behind the [trend][p3ExperienceExplanation]. Senior female economists do not co-author with more women and senior male economists do not co-author with more men. (In fact, senior economists regardless of gender publish more often with members of the opposite sex than they did as juniors.) It is also not true that initially bad female writers (or initially good male writers) disproportionately leave academia: the readability of an author's first paper has zero predictive power on how often he (or she) eventually publishes in a top four economics journal.\
\
\
\
\
This third point is consistent with the possibility that higher standards are causing the gap. \
\
 learn that writing well is not worth the effort---*i.e.*, readability declines (or at a minimum, remains constant) over the course of their careers. \
women's writing gradually gets better but men's does not. \
With no benefit to better writing, however, they cannot account for the relationship actually observed: women most familiar with how peer review works write the clearest.\
\
\
update posterior beliefs about the benefits and/or expectations of readability or the expectations of referees after successive rounds of peer review. Thus (ii), readability declines over the course of women's careers; or (i)\
point to constant or declining readability as women update believes about the payoffs to clear writing after successive rounds of peer review\
 in order to write more clearly although they do not actually generate any tangible benefit (acceptance rates do not change)\
differences in behaviour, biology and/or information about the costs of writing well as grounds for explaining the gender readability gap. \
These interpretations imply women accept the cost of writing well (longer drafting and revision stages) despite getting no benefit (acceptance rates do not change)\
behavioural, biological and or misinformation grounds for explaining the readability gap. These explanations \
explanations that imply women accept the cost of writing well (longer drafting and revision stages) despite getting no benefit {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://EDFE7883-FE13-4BA3-9BFE-A8A7F8A4982F"}}{\fldrslt (acceptance rates do not change).}} Bayesian learning applied to these theories point to constant or declining readability after successive rounds of peer review. \
with greater exposure to peer {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://60D1079C-CE49-41B5-A3B8-E10FB723FE02"}}{\fldrslt review.}} Without any benefit to better writing, however, readability should not improve---yet exactly those women who write the clearest are also the women most familiar with how peer review works.\
These explanations are motivated either by (i) fixed biological differences between the sexes; or (ii) misinformation about the costs of writing well. In the latter case, women update posterior believes about its benefits after successive rounds of peer review---*i.e.*, readability declines over the course of their careers. In the former, readability may decline---as women adapt to environmental expectations---or remain constant. Neither explanation accounts for the relationship actually observed: the clearest female authors are also the women most familiar with how peer review works.\
\
women most familiar with how peer review works write the clearest.\
female economists who write the clearest are precisely those women most familiar with how peer review works.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \
onsider first the author's choice of 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{1it\}$ given $r_\{0it\}$
\f1 \cf0 of 
\f2 \cf4 $R_\{it\}$
\f1 \cf0 ---*
\i i.e.
\i0 *, To do that, I restrict attention to the "revise and resubmit" (R&R) decision---*
\i i.e.
\i0 *, I analyse the author's choice of 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{1it\}$
\f1 \cf0 , given 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{0it\}$
\f1 \cf0 . Section X investigates the relationship between 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{0it\}$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{1it\}$
\f1 \cf0 , and correspondingly discusses in more detail the initial screening process of papers and author's original choice of 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{0it\}$
\f1 \cf0 .\
The author submits the initial draft of his paper to a journal. There, it is assigned to the group of reviewers 
\f2 \cf4 $e\\in\\mathcal E$
\f1 \cf0 , where 
\f2 \cf4 $\\mathcal E$
\f1 \cf0  is the set of all review groups. Given the focus of the analysis, we have assumed that review group $e$ has already decided to invite the author to revise and resubmit his manuscript. At the same time, they have collectively decided that the paper should be published if and only if after revising the document, the paper's readability is at least 
\f2 \cf4 $\\widetilde R_\{it\}^e$
\f1 \cf0 . 
\f2 \cf4 $\\widetilde R_\{it\}^e$
\f1 \cf0  is a threshold on readability specific to the review group $e$; it depends on the characteristics of the paper---*
\i e.g.
\i0 *, topic, novelty and quality---journal and author; it may be prejudiced by the review group conditional on any of these factors.\
Unfortunately, the concept of readability is complex and ambiguous, meaning members of the review group cannot convey 
\f2 \cf4 $\\widetilde R_\{it\}^e$
\f1 \cf0  directly. Instead, they compile a "referee report" from which the author forms expectations about 
\f2 \cf4 $\\widetilde R_\{it\}^e$
\f1 \cf0  by assigning subjective probabilities 
\f2 \cf4 $\\mu_\{1it\}^e(R)$
\f1 \cf0  to all 
\f2 \cf4 $R\\in\\mathbb\{R\}$
\f1 \cf0 . 
\f2 \cf4 $\\mu_\{1it\}^e$
\f1 \cf0  depends on characteristics of the paper, journal and review group and may be biased by the author's interpretation of the referee report or his mis-information about peer review.\
The author's subjective expected utility from choosing readability 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{1it\}$
\f1 \cf0  given his initial choice 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{0it\}$
\f1 \cf0  is 
\f2 \cf4 $$\\mathrm\{\\widehat M\}_\{1it\}^e(R_\{it\})\\,u_\{i\}-c_\{1i|r_\{0it\}\}(r_\{1it\}),$$
\f1 \cf0  where 
\f2 \cf4 $\\mathrm\{\\widehat M\}_\{1it\}^e(R_\{it\})$
\f1 \cf0  is the sum of all 
\f2 \cf4 $\\mu_\{1it\}^e$
\f1 \cf0  such that 
\f2 \cf4 $\\widetilde R_\{it\}<R_\{it\}$
\f1 \cf0 , 
\f2 \cf4 $u_\{i\}$
\f1 \cf0  is the author's utility of having his paper accepted and 
\f2 \cf4 $c_\{1i|r_\{0it\}\}(r_\{1it\})$
\f1 \cf0  represents the cost of making changes 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{1it\}$
\f1 \cf0  given the paper's initial readability 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{0it\}$
\f1 \cf0 . 
\f2 \cf4 $c_\{1i\}$
\f1 \cf0  is increasing and convex in 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{0it\}$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{1it\}$
\f1 \cf0 . Marginally increasing 
\f2 \cf4 $R_\{it\}$
\f1 \cf0  generates proportionally less utility but requires proportionally more effort when the paper is already well written.\

\f2 \cf4 $u_i$
\f1 \cf0  is strictly positive and independent of 
\f2 \cf4 $R_\{it\}$
\f1 \cf0 . Authors probably care about getting their papers accepted and they may care about writing well, but their marginal utility from the intersection of the two events---*
\i i.e.
\i0 *, higher utility from writing well *
\i only
\i0 * because the paper is published in a top-four journal---is assumed to be negligible. For this reason, the impact of author 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0 's personal utility from writing well is reflected only in the first stage when choosing 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{0it\}$
\f1 \cf0  (see Section X, where it is included as a specific element in the author's objective function); it is otherwise irrelevant for the second phase, when choosing 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{1it\}$
\f1 \cf0 .\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs18 \cf5 <!--\\input\{$PPATH/theorems/lemma\}-->
\f1\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In other words, women chose to make their papers more readable because they think it will improve the probability their papers are accepted. This does not imply that utility or risk aversion or whatever doesn't factor into women's choice of $R_\{it\}$. As long as writing more clearly means a higher probability of acceptance, a higher $u_j$ will indeed induce authors to write more clearly. Women may also be more responsive to referee criticism (reflected in a more pessimistic $\\mu_\{j0\}^e$ for all $\\widetilde R_j^e$), but it has to be accompanied by a higher probability of acceptance. Absent that, SEU rational agents will not choose $R_\{j\}>R_\{j\}'$.\
Do women get an advantage from writing more clearly? Theorem X is conditional on having received an R&R. That is, all women who receive an R&R and still write more clearly than men during the revision process expected a strictly higher probability of acceptance.\
This can explain a wide variety of behaviours. For example, women are more sensitive to referee criticism not because they enjoy being sensitive but because they *think* it is rewarded with a higher acceptance rate. Similarly, women may indeed be more risk averse---reflected in X by a higher instantaneous utility of acceptance---but if they choose to write more clearly, again, it was only because they *thought* it would improve their probability of acceptance.\
\
**Corrollary**. Assume $R_\{kt1\}$ and $R_\{it1\}$ satisfy Assumption (3) and $\\widehat\\mu_\{kt1\}(R_\{kt\})=\\widehat\\mu_\{it1\}(R_\{it\})$, where . Then there exists a $\\widehat\\Delta_\{ik\}(R_0)<0$ such that $$\\lim_\{t\\rightarrow\\infty\}\\Delta_\{ikt\}(R_0)\\longrightarrow\\widehat\\Delta_\{ikt\}(R_0)$$ almost surely.\
Yet readability *does not* improve the probability that women's papers are accepted. Although women's papers are indeed more readable, to my knowledge no prior investigation of gender bias in peer review has previously shown that women's papers were accepted at any *higher* rate than men's.\
Women might be more likely to choose a higher R if their utility or acceptance was higher or marginal costs were lower. But what Theorem X establishes is that that they don't do that for the hell of it---they are only going to write more clearly if comes with an additional benefit.\
\
\
\
Groups classified together share, *
\i inter alia
\i0 *, a disposition toward the paper, attachment to the author, attention to detail and range of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8098B1AF-77EA-475A-9A47-6658F6F56B80"}}{\fldrslt conscientiousness.}} \
\
\
\
; it is independent of 
\f2 \cf4 $\\widetilde r_\{0it\}^e$
\f1 \cf0  and likewise conditional on characteristics of the paper, journal, review group and author. If $R_\{it\}<\\widetilde R_\{it\}^e$, the paper is rejected.\
\

\f2 \cf4 $\\rho_\{it\}^e$
\f1 \cf0  reflects the quality and clarity of referee reports written by group 
\f2 \cf4 $e$
\f1 \cf0 . 
\f2 \cf4 $\\widetilde r_\{0it\}^e$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f2 \cf4 $\\widetilde R_\{it\}=\\widetilde r_\{0it\}+\\widetilde r_\{1it\}^e$
\f1 \cf0  are readability thresholds imposed by group 
\f2 \cf4 $e$
\f1 \cf0  for granting author 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0 's 
\f2 \cf4 $t$
\f1 \cf0 th paper a "revise and resubmit" (R&R) and accepting it for publication, respectively. That is, the author is given an R&R if $$\\widetilde r_\{0it\}<r_\{0it\}.$$ But then after granting the author an R&R, review group $e$ is willing to accept it only if the revised manuscript is at least $$\\widetilde R_\{it\}^e<R_\{it\}.$$\
make two separate decisions. The first decision is whether to invite the author a "revise and resubmit" (R&R); the second decision is whether \
are distinguished by two rejection thresholds on readability imposed at \
minimum readability threshold they impose on author $i$'s $t$th paper, denoted by $\\widetilde r_\{0it\}$ and $\\widetilde r_\{1it\}$, and the quality and clarity of their referee report, denoted by $\\mathcal r\\in\\mathcal R$, where $R$  is the set of all referee reports.\
\
 each of which is distinguished by the quality and clarity of its referee report. Depending on the characteristics of the journal, paper---*
\i e.g.
\i0 *, topic, novelty and quality---and author---*
\i e.g.
\i0 *, institutional affiliation and gender---review group 
\f2 \cf4 $e$
\f1 \cf0  grants author 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0  a "revise and resubmit" (R&R) if 
\f2 \cf4 $\\widetilde r_\{0it\}^e<r_\{0it\}$
\f1 \cf0 , where 
\f2 \cf4 $\\widetilde r_\{0it\}^e$
\f1 \cf0  is a readability threshold specific to review group 
\f2 \cf4 $e$
\f1 \cf0 .\
\
denote the publications threshold on readability at time 1. In the even an R&R is granted, review group $e$ will still reject the revised paper at time 1 if 
\f2 \cf4 $$R_\{it\}<\\widetilde R_\{i\}^e,$$
\f1 \cf0  where 
\f2 \cf4 $\\widetilde R_\{i\}^e=\\widetilde r_\{0i\}^e+\\widetilde r_\{1i\}^e$
\f1 \cf0 ,\
where $\\widetilde r_\{1i\}$ reflects the difference between the initial threshold for receiving an R&R and the threshold for publication.\
time 1 threshold on readability specific to review group $e$ and author $i$---*i.e.*, the \
n the event an R&R is granted, review group 
\f2 \cf4 $e$
\f1 \cf0  will still reject the revised paper at time 1 if 
\f2 \cf4 $$R_\{it\}<\\widetilde R_\{i\}^e,$$
\f1 \cf0  where 
\f2 \cf4 $\\widetilde R_\{i\}^e=\\widetilde r_\{0i\}^e+\\widetilde r_\{1i\}^e$
\f1 \cf0 , $R_\{it\}=r_\{0it\}+ r_\{1it\}$, $r_\{1it\}$ are the author's revisions and $\\widetilde r_\{1i\}$ reflects the difference between the initial threshold for receiving an R&R and the threshold for publication. $\\widetilde r_\{0i\}$ and $\\widetilde r_\{1i\}$ are assumed to be independent.\
The concept of readability is complex and ambiguous, meaning members of the review group cannot convey it directly. Instead, $e$ tries to convey this information in a referee report, denoted by 
\f2 \cf4 $\\rho_i^e$
\f1 \cf0 . The author uses the report $\\rho_i^e$ to form expectations about $\\widetilde R_i^e$ by assigning subjective probabilities $\\widehat\\mu_\{1it\}^\{\\rho_i^e\}(R)$ to all $R$. $\\widehat\\mu_\{1it\}^\{\\rho_i^e\}$ may be biased by the author's interpretation of the referee report or a skewed perception of peer review.\
 Authors, in turn, misconstrue even excellent reports when they are, *
\i inter alia
\i0 *, over- or under-confident in their paper's other qualities or excessively sensitive to low-probability events. Thus, the author's interpretation of the report is imprecise; the expectations he forms about $\\widetilde R_i^e$ can only be represented in the subjective probabilities $\\widehat\\mu_\{1it]^e(R)$ he assings to all $R$ after reading the report.\
\
It *also* implies that if author $i$ choses a higher readability than another author with an otherwise equivalent paper, then author $i$ anticipated a higher probability of acceptance, *ex ante*.\
\
\
that unless author $i$ chooses the same $r_\{0it\}$ and $R_\{it\}$ every single time period, \
Yet when he chooses to *change* his readability from one time to the next, that decision is driven by his desire to amp up his probability of acceptance.\
[](#theorem1) shows that if at time $t$ author choses $r_\{0it\}$ and $R_\{it\}$ but at some other time $t'$ he chose $r'<r_\{0it\}$ and $R'<R_\{it\}$, then the higher readability at time $t$ is driven exclusively by the author's desire to attain a higher acceptance rate. \
 author $i$'s *ex ante* subjective probability of being accepted given his optimal readability choices $r_\{0it\}$ and $R_\{it\}$ is never equal to (and strictly greater than) his subjective probability of acceptance at every other $r'<r_\{0it\}$ and $R'<R_\{it\}$.\
\
\
[](#theorem1) also implies that an increase in readability between time $t'$ and time $t$ was driven by the expectation of being rewarded for it with a higher acceptance probability. It *also* implies that if author $i$ chose a higher readability than another author with an otherwise equivalent paper, then author $i$ anticipated a higher probability of acceptance, *ex ante*.\
the optimal choice of readability is always linked to the probability of acceptance: although many reasons may factor into a woman's choice of $r_\{0it\}$ and $R_\{it\}$, but absent a higher acceptance rate, women do not increase\
women chose to make their papers more readable because they think it will improve the probability their papers are accepted. This does not imply that utility or risk aversion or whatever doesn't factor into women's choice of 
\f2 \cf4 $R_\{it\}$
\f1 \cf0 . As long as writing more clearly means a higher probability of acceptance, a higher 
\f2 \cf4 $u_i$
\f1 \cf0  will indeed induce authors to write more clearly. Women may also be more responsive to referee criticism (reflected in a more pessimistic 
\f2 \cf4 $\\pi_\{0it\}^s$
\f1 \cf0  for all 
\f2 \cf4 $\\widetilde R_\{it\}^s$
\f1 \cf0 ), but it has to be accompanied by a higher probability of acceptance. Absent that, SEU rational agents would prefer to choose a smaller 
\f2 \cf4 $R$
\f1 \cf0 .\
This can explain a wide variety of behaviours. For example, women are more sensitive to referee criticism not because they enjoy being sensitive but because they *
\i think
\i0 * it is rewarded with a higher acceptance rate. Similarly, women may indeed be more risk averse---reflected in X by a higher instantaneous utility of acceptance---but if they choose to write more clearly, again, it was only because they *
\i thought
\i0 * it would improve their probability of acceptance.\
\
But I'm also relatively certain that if I could get away with writing less readably, then I would.\
\
\
This does not imply that $u_i$, $\\phi_i$ and $c_i$ do non influence $r_\{0it\}$ and $R_\{it\}$. It does imply, however, that their influence should not be reinforced over timeFor their influence on readability to be *
\i reinforced
\i0 * however, they must bolster other *
\i explicit
\i0 * objectives. For example, sensitive authors do not become more sensitive unless that sensitivity is useful for achieving the explicit objectives in 
\f2 \cf3 [](#equationX1)
\f1 \cf0  or 
\f2 \cf3 [](#equationX2)
\f1 \cf0 . Thus, Indeed, if at any point he chooses to write his current paper more clearly than some previous paper, this choice was motivated by a higher ex ante subjective expected probability of acceptance. Absent that advantage, author $i$ prefers the smaller readability chosen previously.\

\f2 \cf4 $u_i$
\f1 \cf0 , 
\f2 \cf4 $\\phi_i$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f2 \cf4 $c_i$
\f1 \cf0  remain constant over time. Thus, changes to $r_\{0it\}$ and $R_\{it\}$ imply changes in the subjective probabilities author 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0  forms about 
\f2 \cf4 $\\widetilde r_\{0it\}$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f2 \cf4 $\\widetilde R_\{it\}$
\f1 \cf0 . Thus, when authors write current papers more readably than past or future papers, they do so because they expected to be rewarded for it with a higher probability of acceptance. Changes to the optimal choices 
\f2 \cf4 $r_\{0it\}$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f2 \cf4 $R_\{it\}$
\f1 \cf0  are motivated entirely by a desire to achieve his other objective of getting his paper accepted into a prestigious academic journal.\
[](#theorem1) indirectly implies that if author 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0  choses a higher readability than another author with an otherwise equivalent paper, then author 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0  anticipated a higher probability of acceptance, *
\i ex ante
\i0 *. Of course, that doesn't mean author 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0  is right---it is perfectly plausible that he's misinformed and there is no difference in their probabilities of acceptance. As 
\f2 \cf4 $t\\rightarrow\\infty$
\f1 \cf0  in a fixed state 
\f2 \cf4 $s$
\f1 \cf0  with perfect recall of his past histories or in any state with access to his peers' histories, author 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0  eventually figures this out.\
\
\
(For an overview of the literature, see, *
\i e.g.
\i0 *, 
\f2 \cf2 [#Ceci2014;]
\f1 \cf0 .) Thus, if female author's improve both improve their writing over time *
\i and
\i0 * persistently write more clearly then men, then 
\f2 \cf3 [](#Theorem1)
\f1 \cf0  implies that female authors suffer from a subtle form of discrimination. Either referee assignment is biased in favour of men---*
\i i.e.
\i0 *, journal editors disproportionately refer female-authored papers to the toughest critics---or referees are more critical of female-authored work.\
\
\
\
This suggests two simple empirical tests can establish if editorial standards and/or referee assignment beyond authors' control is driving the readability gap, or, instead, it's being driven by gender differences in biology/behaviour and/or knowledge about referee expectations.\
The first test \
\
[](#Theorem1) relies on two principle identifying assumptions: (i) [](#equationX1) and [](#equationX2) accurately reflect authors' objective functions; and (ii) men and women are accurately sorted into appropriate equivalence classes. If so, then The first identifying assumption is discussed at length in [](#Robustness). For the moment, I assume it is satisfied and focus instead on Conditions (1)--(3) under conditions in which the topic, novelty and quality of a paper is independent of gender.\
\
Thus, \
For either phenomena to cause a *
\i persistent
\i0 * readability gap, however, then female-authored papers will be disproportionately represented in academic journals.\
Under these conditions, female-authored papers should enjoy higher acceptance rates, all things equal.\
If they don't---*i.e.*, if Condition 1 is satisfied---then diligently addressing every referee concern has no apparent upside---acceptance rates are unaffected---and a very clear downside---constant redrafting takes time. In that case, women may indeed have a higher utlity or acceptance or simply be more risk averse\
In the absence of other reason to keep readability so high, rational women re-examine initial beliefs\'85 and then start \
When Condition 1 is satisfied, however, this behaviour cannot persist long-term. If women care more about being accepted, \
Persistent effort in the absence of any tangible reward requires systematic failure among women to efficiently allocate resources\
If women's hard work solely behind long-term readability differences, however, they must be rewarded with higher acceptance rates.\
For such gender differences in preferences to persist long term, however, \
 write more clearly in peer review. A gender readability gap---even one formed *during* peer review---could reasonably reflect gender differences in preferences. For example, more risk averse individuals or those with higher utility of acceptance might exert more effort (on average) to reduce their odds of being {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7D190C8A-C8B3-4A04-BB4D-ED2421FF25DA"}}{\fldrslt rejected.}} They expect to be rewarded, however, with higher acceptance rates, all else equal. As a consequence, their papers would---and, indeed *
\i should
\i0 *---be disproportionately represented in academic journals. So gender differences in preferences lead to appropriate gender differences in outcomes.\
If better written female-authored papers are accepted at higher rates than more poorly written papers by otherwise equivalent male authors, then women are being rewarded for the time and effort they put into writing more clearly. The gender readability gap could reasonably reflect gender differences in the utility of acceptance. For example, women are more risk averse{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://078C03EB-9E34-4DAD-966F-E4BDCF8B1CE4"}}{\fldrslt [see, *
\i e.g.
\i0 *,\\]\\[][#Borghans2009].}} Consider revision rounds as lotteries. An author\'92s labour reveals his willingness to pay to reduce risk, so a positive link between risk aversion and better writing implies risk averse individuals exert more effort (on average) to reduce their odds of being {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://ACF96387-35BB-4F5D-980B-5E5BD09D702B"}}{\fldrslt rejected.}} Under these conditions, risk aversion leads to higher acceptance rates, all else equal. So if female authors truly are more risk averse than men, their papers would---and, indeed *
\i should
\i0 *---be disproportionately represented in academic journals. \
\
\
As for Condition 1: readability gap could emerge from underlying gender differences in 
\f2 \cf4 $u_i$
\f1 \cf0 : ambitious authors or those strongly averse to being rejected probably work harder to secure publications. Nevertheless, they eventually learn readability's true impact on rejection, so 
\f2 \cf4 $i$
\f1 \cf0 's unconditional probability of acceptance must be higher than 
\f2 \cf4 $k$
\f1 \cf0 's for 
\f2 \cf4 $u_k<u_i$
\f1 \cf0  to produce 
\f2 \cf4 $R_\{kt\}<R_\{it\}$
\f1 \cf0  indefinitely.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs20 \cf0 [1] First authors are those identified in the acknowledgements or listed first when authors are not ordered alphabetically. See [][Data] for more details.}