{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red255\green128\blue0;\red209\green9\blue14;
\red0\green128\blue64;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Gender bias is possible only when authors' identity is known or can be reasonably guessed. Two factors make that feasible: non-blind review and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://57303250-CA26-4B72-8F60-7D2641436A36"}}{\fldrslt Google.}} Do either exacerbate the readability gap between male- and female-authored abstracts? No and Yes. While the gap has grown with search engines' popularity and accuracy, double-blind review does not seem to dampen it. And it may make things worse.\
Two journals---*
\i QJE
\i0 * and *
\i AER
\i0 *---employed double-blind review at some point during the time period covered by the data. *
\i AER
\i0 *\\'s spell began 1 July, 1989 and ended 1 July, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1E1EDDE6-3EDB-4545-A55A-D205DE89BEE7"}}{\fldrslt 2011.}} *
\i QJE
\i0 * used double-blind procedures until 1 June, 2005. *
\i Econometrica
\i0 *, *
\i JPE
\i0 * and *
\i AER Papers & Proceedings
\i0 * have never blinded referees to papers' {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://08D93856-D205-4A64-A7CA-CFA9A0FFCC86"}}{\fldrslt authors.}}\
The first panel in 
\f1 \cf2 [](#p3table9b)
\f0 \cf0  displays marginal effects of double-blind review by gender from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://92C3859C-E7B2-4889-833A-51D3F401F9AE"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 [](#eq:p3eq5)
\f0 \cf0 :}}where 
\f1 \cf3 $\\text\{double-blind review\}_j$
\f0 \cf0  equals 1 if article 
\f1 \cf3 $j$
\f0 \cf0  was evaluated under double-blind {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B9CEF690-4DB2-4538-A5D9-49EA88F1FB08"}}{\fldrslt refereeing}} and 
\f1 \cf3 $\\text\{era\}_j\\text\{ effect\}$
\f0 \cf0  splits data into three time periods: 1950--1969, 1970--1989 and 1990--{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://798B9416-4B6C-474F-9D7B-FC76F4384B84"}}{\fldrslt 2015.}} Male effects for male authors co-authoring with no females 
\f1 \cf3 $(\\beta_2)$
\f0 \cf0 ; female effects for female authors co-authoring with no males 
\f1 \cf3 $(\\beta_2+\\beta_3)${\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8D798339-7242-4975-B85B-CA11B510774B"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf0 .}}
\f0 \cf0 \
In the first panel, switching to double-blind review does not significantly affect the readability of female-authored abstracts. For whatever reason, however, it does affect men. When blindly evaluated, male-authored abstracts are up to 
\f1 \cf4 !!DoubleBlindMan
\f0 \cf0  percent less clear. The effect is weakly significant for two out of five scores.\
The last row of panel one displays gender differences. Because men write slightly sloppier under double-blind review but women do not, all statistics agree that a double-blind refereeing policy exacerbates the readability gap; three are significant.\
The second panel of 
\f1 \cf2 [](#p3table9b)
\f0 \cf0  re-estimates 
\f1 \cf2 [](#eq:p3eq5)
\f0 \cf0  with primary *
\i JEL
\i0 * effects on *
\i AER
\i0 * abstracts published on or after 1990. The data therefore cover a single journal during periods of both double- and single-blind review. Figures support conclusions drawn from the first panel. Again, all readability scores---four of which are significant---confirm double-blind review exacerbates gender differences. On the source of that difference, four agree that male-authored abstracts are less readable (the Dale-Chall score suggests the opposite) while all five newly affirm female-authored abstracts are more readable when referees are blinded to authors' identities.\
Gender differences in writing standards grow under double-blind review. This result dovetails with a finding in
\f1 \cf5 [#Blank1991;]
\f0 \cf0 . After a two-year controlled experiment whereby manuscripts submitted to *
\i AER
\i0 * were randomly subjected to either single- or double-blind review she found referees under the latter system rate female-authored articles more harshly. Although her result lacks significance it suggests referees are easier on women's papers as long as they know authors' gender. By one logical extension, female-authored manuscripts deserve more criticism because they are poorer quality.\
A combination of lower quality research and less scrutiny of papers written by women may drive significance here. If women's manuscripts are not as good, referees, blinded or not, *
\i should
\i0 * peruse them more carefully---a byproduct of which could be better written papers after-the-fact or more attractive prose compensating for structural weaknesses before it. That only the blinded referees do might explain why they are harsher on male-authored manuscripts but easier on female-authored ones when gender is definitely known.\
But I'll leave that question to physical scientists and instead offer an alternative explanation. I mean, who wants to believe biological features over which one has no control determine whether research is good or not? Not I, said the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://31F97A98-9188-43AE-B467-84FCED7135C2"}}{\fldrslt woman!}}\
When blinded to authors' identities, reviewers may be more susceptible to "snap judgements" based on gender stereotypes than when they {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://05A7890A-FFE5-4800-B267-CECA3798F243"}}{\fldrslt aren't.}} Referees that know authors' identities have a lot more information at their disposal when reviewing a paper---previous publications, current employment, education, etc. They also have the freedom to query colleagues on reputation, work ethic and general competency. All of this information impacts how papers are assessed---for example, "the author's identity might signal to a referee whether it is necessary to double-check technical details in a paper with a great deal of mathematical analysis"
\f1 \cf5 [\\]\\[p. 1042][#Blank1991]
\f0 \cf0 .\
Double-blind review makes overt information-gathering illegal but it does not stop referees from guessing authors' identities---which they did with surprising accuracy before the internet
\f1 \cf5 [#Blank1991]
\f0 \cf0 , and presumably perfect accuracy after it---meaning superficial qualities are known but not complemented by more reliable indicators of reputation. Assuming referees are about as evolved as the rest of humanity, they underrate women and overrate men without extra evidence of the former's competency
\f1 \cf5 [#Foschi2000]
\f0 \cf0 . The end result may be harsher referee evaluations---and consequently better written text---of female-authored articles under double-blind review.}