{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red209\green9\blue14;\red255\green128\blue0;
}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://79982E5F-D193-46F0-8ED3-BFE9FD458702"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 [](#p3table3)}}
\f1\fs28  displays average characters, words, syllables, polysyllabic words and difficult words per sentence, broken down by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A3B95263-9D7C-4DEC-82D6-5916DD66ED3A"}}{\fldrslt sex.}} According to all measures, women write shorter, simpler sentences---they contain fewer characters, fewer syllables, fewer words and fewer "hard" words. All differences are highly significant.\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5BDA30DD-F0E0-494C-ADF9-BE1F37D6A528"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3table4b)}} presents the estimated coefficients from an ordinary least square regression of an article's ratio of female co-authors on each of the five readability scores. Column (1) includes only the four journal dummies. It indicates abstracts written only by women score 1.27 points higher on the Flesch Reading Ease scale and take between 1--6 fewer months of schooling to understand according to the other four {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9454E2A9-4EF8-4BA1-B796-A6DC660B7A24"}}{\fldrslt measures.}} Percentage-wise, women write between 1--3 percent better than {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7D90F35B-7D3E-44EE-9B16-AAFCE1930935"}}{\fldrslt men.}}\
Column (2) includes 63 year dummies; column (3) adds another 182 journal and year interaction dummies; column (4) introduces the 98 institutional dummies. Controlling for time reduces gender's impact on the first four scores by 20--40 percent but exacerbates it by a third for the Dale-Chall score. Adding the institution dummies has little to no effect on the estimates. Coefficients and standard errors are very similar across columns (2), (3) and (4).\
The coefficients on the journal dummy variables from (2) are presented in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://914712EB-8BEA-4E4C-82FF-3109715BD6F2"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3table5).}}They contrast the readability of *Econometrica*, *JPE* and *QJE* with *AER* and provide a useful check on the reliability of the five scores. As intuitively anticipated, all five scores agree that *
\i Econometrica
\i0 * is harder to read; the Flesch Reading Ease and Dale-Chall scores suggest *
\i JPE
\i0 * and *
\i QJE
\i0 * are easier.\
Columns 4 and 5 add controls for 20 primary *
\i JEL
\i0 * codes. Articles are usually assigned multiple codes---the average paper in the data has 
\f0 \cf3 !!AvgJEL
\f1 \cf0  linked to it. To avoid subjectively choosing only one or randomly deleting data, each article is duplicated 
\f0 \cf4 $n_j$
\f1 \cf0  times, where 
\f0 \cf4 $n_j$
\f1 \cf0  is the number of primary *
\i JEL
\i0 * codes assigned to article 
\f0 \cf4 $j$
\f1 \cf0 . Observation 
\f0 \cf4 $j_k\\in\\\{1,\\ldots,n_j\\\}$
\f1 \cf0  is allocated article 
\f0 \cf4 $j\\text\{'s \}k\\text\{th\}$
\f1 \cf0  *
\i JEL
\i0 * code and weighted by 
\f0 \cf4 $1/n_j${\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://BF7DC1EA-5590-49EF-848A-D8D6F50918F5"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf0 .}}
\f1 \cf0 \
Since classifications and institutions are only available for a subset of articles, columns 3--5 estimate 
\f0 \cf2 [](#eq:p3eq1)
\f1 \cf0  on just 45, 
\f0 \cf3 !!JELSubset
\f1 \cf0  and 16 percent of the data, respectively. Nevertheless, coefficients are roughly the same as those in column 2, albeit slightly higher---female-authored abstracts may be 
\f0 \cf3 !!RangeColC
\f1 \cf0  percent better {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9AF2812D-166C-4764-BA70-A87C8F6FBADF"}}{\fldrslt written.}}\

\f0 \cf2 [](#p3table5b)
\f1 \cf0  displays 
\f0 \cf4 $\\beta_c$
\f1 \cf0  from estimating {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D0A0E20E-F1D7-4363-867A-EC78F4090E98"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf2 [](#eq:p3eq2)}}where 
\f0 \cf4 $\\text\{score\}_\{j_k\}^s$
\f1 \cf0  is the 
\f0 \cf4 $k\\text\{th\}$
\f1 \cf0  copy of readability score 
\f0 \cf4 $s$
\f1 \cf0  for article 
\f0 \cf4 $j$
\f1 \cf0 , and subscript 
\f0 \cf4 $c_\{j_k\}$
\f1 \cf0  denotes article 
\f0 \cf4 $j\\text\{'s\}$ $k\\text\{th\}
\f1 \cf0 $ *
\i JEL
\i0 * {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1128E53B-6F01-43C0-A5E8-E9A6BD67B644"}}{\fldrslt code.}}\
According to at least one readability score, gender differences are less pronounced in subfields B (history of economic thought, methodology and heterodox approaches), F (international economics), H (public economics), M (business administration and business economics; marketing; accounting), O (economic development, technological change and growth) and R (regional, real estate and transportation economics).\
Abstracts from subfield O are still better written when authored by women according to three of the five scores; marginal effects for B, F, H and R are not significantly different from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8806F989-AD7F-4C95-BF26-BF9142C10A49"}}{\fldrslt zero.}} Weak evidence points to men as the better writers in subfield M: its Flesch-Kincaid score suggests female-authored abstracts take 
\f0 \cf3 !!FleschKincaidM
\f1 \cf0  more years of schooling to understand (standard error 
\f0 \cf3 !!FleschKincaidse
\f1 \cf0 ); effects for the other scores are insignificant.\
Papers classified as D (microeconomics), N (economic history) or Q (agricultural and natural resource economics; environmental and ecological economics) have more pronounced gender differences in readability---female-authored abstracts read 
\f0 \cf3 !!DBetter
\f1 \cf0 , 
\f0 \cf3 !!NBetter
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f0 \cf3 !!QBetter
\f1 \cf0  times better than the average, respectively. All readability scores agree, are significant on their own and most are significantly higher than the mean effect.\
In contrast to my expectation, more women in a field may not necessarily be an antidote to gender differences in readability. While D, N and Q are about average in terms of total female co-authors, they vary widely in how frequently their papers name only female co-{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7C695379-2196-4A21-88BC-86D87756834B"}}{\fldrslt authors.}} Q is in the 
\f0 \cf3 !!QFemOnly
\f1 \cf0 , D the 
\f0 \cf3 !!DFemOnly
\f1 \cf0 , N the 
\f0 \cf3 !!NFemOnly
\f1 \cf0 . Admittedly, 
\f0 \cf3 !!NWomen
\f1 \cf0  percent is itself pretty low; economic history papers are still overwhelmingly---as in 
\f0 \cf3 !!NMen
\f1 \cf0  percent---penned just by men. But given the readability gap is present in subfields with both above- and below-average rates of sole female authorship, women may need to be better writers even where more of them publish.}