{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red255\green128\blue0;\red209\green9\blue14;
}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf2 [](#eq:p3eq6)
\f1 \cf0  investigates the effect internet search---and Google, specifically---has on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://33F4BC87-57BD-4C1B-96EA-D373F83309DD"}}{\fldrslt readability:}}where 
\f0 \cf3 $\\text\{Google search\}_j$
\f1 \cf0  is one of two statistics: a dummy variable equal to 1 for articles published after Google incorporated (September 1998) and the natural log of total annual searches on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6032DB4A-2488-4364-9E7F-32DFD94B4D0E"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf2 [Google.com](http://www.google.com)
\f1 \cf0 .}}\

\f0 \cf2 [](#p3table10b)
\f1 \cf0  presents results. It suggests the gender readability gap has grown with the popularity of search engines. The first panel shows the marginal effect for annual search numbers. The ratio of female authors is weakly significant for four out of five scores: each time internet search traffic doubled---which it has 19 times since 1998---women's Flesch Reading Ease score increased by 
\f0 \cf4 !!GoogleLogFlesch
\f1 \cf0  points; their Flesch-Kincaid, Gunning Fog and SMOG scores declined by roughly 
\f0 \cf4 !!GoogleLogThree
\f1 \cf0  points.\
Men experienced a muted version of this trend. Doubling the number of Google searches made annually is correlated with a 
\f0 \cf4 !!GoogleLogFleschMan
\f1 \cf0  point rise in their Flesch Reading Ease score and 
\f0 \cf4 !!GoogleLogKincaidMan
\f1 \cf0  point fall in their Flesch-Kincaid score. Differences between the sexes are significant only for the latter.\

\f0 \cf2 [](#p3table10b)
\f1 \cf0 's second panel re-estimates 
\f0 \cf2 [](#eq:p3eq6)
\f1 \cf0  with the Google incorporation dummy. Marginal effects are more pronounced---male and female estimates are 
\f0 \cf4 !!GoogleManPTwo
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f0 \cf4 !!GoogleWomanPTwo
\f1 \cf0  times higher, respectively---although the precision of those estimates has not {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://50BA0407-6C9D-4327-AB82-0B1679DE8DBE"}}{\fldrslt improved.}} The Flesch Reading Ease suggests Google improved readability of female-authored abstracts by five points; according to the others, it cut schooling needed to understand abstracts by up to a year and a quarter. Men likewise improved, albeit to a lesser degree. Differences between the sexes are newly significant for the Gunning Fog and SMOG scores; the Flesch-Kincaid remains weakly significant. All suggest Google's existence is correlated with a 
\f0 \cf4 !!GoogleSexCompare
\f1 \cf0  percent greater increase in the readability of female-authored abstracts relative to abstracts by men.}