{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red255\green128\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2BF780FA-E8D4-41F4-AA55-24B541694D6D"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 [](#p2table6)}}
\f1\fs28 displays results from estimating 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p2equation5)
\f1 \cf0 . The second panel presents effects of the variables from 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p2table1)
\f1 \cf0 . As before, youth and manufacturing contribute to steeper financing obstacles. Older, service industry companies complain less. Size and foreign-ownership are newly significant---smaller, domestic firms have the toughest time with credit---but state-ownership no longer is. Export status remains close to zero and insignificant.\
The third panel in 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p2table6)
\f1 \cf0  lists marginal effects for the lending environment variables from 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p2table2)
\f1 \cf0 . None are remotely significant, save GDP---an extra $1,000 per person reduces perceived financing constraints by eight percent.\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://14AD1B1F-D9FF-4825-BF7B-79E58D38DD8D"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p2table7)}}displays the marginal effects of 
\f0 \cf3 $Y$
\f1 \cf0 , 
\f0 \cf3 $p$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f0 \cf3 $B$
\f1 \cf0 . The first column shows each at observation-weighted grand means of the covariates. Only credit information is (weakly) significant---a full unit increase reduces perception that finance is an obstacle by about a third. Implementing receivership likewise cuts financing constraints; large contract enforcement costs increase them. Neither effect is significant.\
The next two columns in 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p2table7)
\f1 \cf0  break down 
\f0 \cf3 $Y$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f0 \cf3 $p$
\f1 \cf0  by bankruptcy regime. The latter is signifiant only with receivership: a unit increase corresponds to an almost fivefold decrease in reported financing constraints. Without it, the effect is close to zero and not statistically different from it. The difference is both large and significant---confirming 
\f0 \cf2 [](#hypoth3)
\f1 \cf0 .\
In countries with receivership, the effect on 
\f0 \cf3 $Y$
\f1 \cf0  is negative, but erratic---in line with 
\f0 \cf2 [](#hypoth2)
\f1 \cf0 's prediction. 
\f0 \cf2 [](#hypoth1)
\f1 \cf0  appears likewise confirmed: without receivership, 
\f0 \cf3 $Y$
\f1 \cf0  is positively correlated with financing constraints---as anticipated---but significant only at relatively extreme values of 
\f0 \cf3 $p$
\f1 \cf0 .\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C55889C7-00C4-423D-A351-ECD8BFE102BE"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p2figure1)}}maps this relationship, showing 
\f0 \cf3 $Y$
\f1 \cf0 's marginal effect (fixed at various percentiles) over 
\f0 \cf3 $p$
\f1 \cf0 . 
\f0 \cf3 $Y$
\f1 \cf0 's positive correlation with 
\f0 \cf3 $\\text\{obstacle\}_i$
\f1 \cf0  is persistent, yet significant only when information is abundant. Recall that sparse borrower information makes accurate adjudication of viable firms less likely---possibly mitigating the impact of costly {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://ADF154CD-8460-417C-B80E-164075275FD6"}}{\fldrslt reorganisation.}} As information increases, however, reorganisations do, too---so their impact may be more acutely felt.\
Of course, non-viable firms experience the situation in reverse. Poor information makes reorganisation more probable, so 
\f0 \cf3 $Y$
\f1 \cf0  should have its clearest impact when 
\f0 \cf3 $p$
\f1 \cf0  is small. This interpretation would be less significant, however, if viable projects dominate the sample---or at least respondents' frame of mind when asked "Is access to financing [an obstacle] to the current operations of this {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D6947091-EE32-405C-806B-061F6C0FDD1A"}}{\fldrslt establishment?".}}}