{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5BDA30DD-F0E0-494C-ADF9-BE1F37D6A528"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 [](#p3table4)}}
\f1\fs28 presents coefficients from an ordinary least squares regression of ratio of female co-authors on the five readability scores. To account for error correlation by editorial policy, observations are grouped by journal editor/editorial board and standard errors are adjusted {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B57F4E2C-E2AD-4332-AE82-04159F9355FD"}}{\fldrslt accordingly.}}\
Column (1) controls for journal: abstracts written only by women score about one point higher on the Flesch Reading Ease scale; according to the four grade-level measures, they take 1--6 fewer months of schooling to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://36BBED87-9A41-4BCF-B1A0-DADA643AAAA2"}}{\fldrslt understand.}} Percentage-wise, women write between 1--3 percent better than {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7D90F35B-7D3E-44EE-9B16-AAFCE1930935"}}{\fldrslt men.}}\
Column (2) includes 63 year dummies; column (3) adds another 182 journal and year interaction dummies; column (4) introduces the 98 institution dummies. Controlling for time and institution has little effect. Coefficients and standard errors are very similar to those in the first column.\
The coefficients on the journal dummies in (2) are presented in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://914712EB-8BEA-4E4C-82FF-3109715BD6F2"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3table5).}}They compare *AER*'s readability to the readability of *
\i ECA
\i0 *, *
\i JPE
\i0 * and *
\i QJE
\i0 *, providing a useful check on the reliability of readability formulas in the context of economic writing. As intuitively expected, all five scores agree that *
\i Econometrica
\i0 * is harder to read; four out of five scores suggest *
\i JPE
\i0 * is, too, while *
\i QJE
\i0 * is easier.\
Column (5) in 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3table4)
\f1 \cf0  controls for primary *
\i JEL
\i0 * classification. Since only post-1990 *
\i JEL
\i0 * classifications are used, estimates in (5) exclude roughly 40 percent of the data. Nevertheless, coefficients are roughly equivalent---with the exception of the Flesch Reading Ease score which halves and loses significance.\

\f0 \cf2 [](#p3figure4) 
\f1 \cf0 displays results from an ordinary least squares regression on the Dale-Chall score; regressors are: (i) ratio of female co-authors; (ii) dummies for each primary *
\i JEL
\i0 * code, (iii) interactions from (i) and (ii) and (iv) controls for journal, year, institution and editorial {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7D342DB8-6C66-4446-B9E8-2C2AC35809DC"}}{\fldrslt board.}} Due to small sample sizes---particularly of female authors---
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3figure4)
\f1 \cf0  includes 549 articles from *
\i AER Papers & {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0932C0E0-76F7-46B2-BB10-487C2D0075DD"}}{\fldrslt Proceedings
\i0 *.}}
\i0  *
\i AER Papers & Proceedings
\i0 * is coded as a separate journal and edited by the American Economic Association's president-{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D281F6D8-1275-49E2-B1AF-A4AD0591D5F9"}}{\fldrslt elect.}}\
The pink vertical line in 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3figure4)
\f1 \cf0 's left-hand graph is the marginal effect of female authorship at the mean. Its estimate coincides with results in [](#p3table4)---women's papers require six fewer weeks of schooling to understand---and is highly significant (standard error 0.04). Points reflect marginal effects across *
\i JEL
\i0 * classification (bars represent 90 percent confidence intervals from standard errors clustered by editor). Women earn higher marks for clarity in 12 out of 15 categories; only three are significant: Q (Agricultural and Natural Resource Economics; Environmental and Ecological Economics), N (Economic History), and J (Labour Economics). Men may be better writers in L (Industrial Organisation), O (Economic Development, Innovation, Technological Change, and Growth) and H (Public Economics); none, however, are statistically different from zero. 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3figure4)
\f1 \cf0 's right-hand graph displays coefficients from interacting the ratio of female co-authors with each *
\i JEL
\i0 * code. Q and N are significantly above the mean, O and H significantly below it. Remaining categories are not statistically different from the mean effect.\
In general, sample sizes are small and estimates imprecise---only Labour Economics and Microeconomics contain more than 100 papers written only by women (the others average 35). Nevertheless, 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3figure4)
\f1 \cf0  suggests two things. First, the mostly insignificant interaction terms indicate outlier fields are probably not driving journals' gender readability gap---nor is any specific field bucking the trend. Second, the number of women in a field appears to have little effect on the size of the gap: Agriculture/Environment has one of the lowest concentrations of female-authored papers---but Economic History has one of the highest (Labour Economics falls between the two). Admittedly, Economic History papers are still overwhelmingly---as in 74 percent---penned just by men. But given the readability gap is present in subfields with both above- and below-average rates of sole female authorship, women may need to be better writers even where more of them publish.}