{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset204 PTMono-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green226\blue33;\red16\green128\blue214;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c99200\c89800\c16100;\csgenericrgb\c6100\c50000\c84000;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 I attribute the difference between NBER abstracts and published abstracts to the peer review process. However, NBER has no word limit while two journals in my sample do: *
\i Econometrica
\i0 * limits abstracts to 150 words; *AER* limits them to 100 words. It is therefore possible that the effects we observe are due to authors compressing the content of their abstracts rather than due to peer review.\
As shown in [](#table6), female-authored NBER abstracts tend to be slightly longer (more words) than male-authored abstracts---but then slightly shorter (again, in terms of total words) in published form. [](#figureC7a) shows the distribution of abstract lengths by gender. The graph on the left displays abstract length in NBER working papers; the graph on the right displays the distribution of abstract lengths in the published paper, again broken down by gender. Word counts in NBER drafts are more spread out; they are much more tightly compacted in the final, published version of those same papers. There appears to be no massive gender difference in the distribution of these two figures; also, there appears to be no outlier papers driving the results.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f2\fs18 <!--\\input\{$HOME/Dropbox/Readability/draft/tex/fixed/figureC7a\}-->
\f1\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 I also repeat the analysis in [](#table7) but this time only on articles whose NBER abstracts fell below the official minimum word limit of the respective journal in which it was published. The subsequent analysis effectively dropped about 40 percent of the observations. Results are presented in [](#tableC7a). Although standard errors are somewhat larger than those presented in [](#table7), the coefficient magnitudes are very similar.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf3 <!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2\fs18 <!--\\input\{$HOME/Dropbox/Readability/draft/tex/generated/tableC7a\}\
\\clearpage-->
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::1>}