{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset204 PTMono-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Regular;
\f3\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red252\green226\blue33;\red16\green128\blue214;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\cssrgb\c99200\c89800\c16100;\csgenericrgb\c6100\c50000\c84000;
}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::2><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 [](#table6_FemRatio)
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::2>
\f2\fs28  tentatively suggests double-blind review may have successfully reduced peer review's impact on the gender readability gap *
\f3\i before
\f2\i0 * the internet. In this appendix, I show evidence (also tentative) suggesting that it may have been less effective *
\f3\i after
\f2\i0 * the internet. In particular, I re-estimated [](#equation3) on the sample of articles published in or after 1998 and defined a dummy variable equal to one if a journal had in place an official policy of double-blind review at the time a paper was published. The coefficients on female ratio (papers with fewer than 50 percent female authors are classified as male, see [][Gender]) and its interaction with the redefined indicator of blind review are presented in [](#table7_semiblind). The coefficient on female ratio reflects the gender gap in journals that did not have in place an official policy of double-blind review (*i.e.*, *Econometrica*, *JPE*, *QJE* after 2004 and *AER* after 2011). The coefficient on the interaction between female ratio and blind review reflects the gender gap in journals that did have an official policy of blind review (*i.e.*, *QJE* before 2004 and *AER* before 2011).\
Four out of five scores suggest a positive gender readability gap among both blindly reviewed papers and non-blindly reviewed papers published after the advent of the internet. Thus, it does not appear that blind review was able to alleviate the gender readability gap once referees could easily determine authors' identities by simply Googling them.\
Editors knew submitting authors' identities---and therefore genders---both before and after the internet as well as under single- and double-blind review. Thus, the reversed gap in double-blind review 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::2>
\f1\fs28 [pre-internet](#table6_FemRatio)
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::2>
\f2\fs28  and positive gap 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::2>
\f1\fs28 [post-internet](#table7_semiblind)
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::2>
\f2\fs28  may suggest bias from referees---as opposed to editors---drives observed gender differences in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://57DCE25F-FD24-44AB-BEE4-9FABA8564011"}}{\fldrslt readability.}} Nevertheless, this conclusion is based on noisy (often insignificant) estimates and should therefore only be made cautiously.
\f1\fs18 \cf3 \
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf4 <!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\fs18 <!--\
\\input\{$HOME/Dropbox/Readability/draft/0-tex/generated/Table-G.4\}\
\\clearpage-->
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::1>}