{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 A gender readability gap exists. It's still there after including editor, journal and year effects, meaning we cannot blame a specific policy or chalk it up to attitudes in the 50s, long since overcome. It's unaffected by controlling for field, so neither is it a product of writing on topics that are easier to explain. Perhaps women write better thanks to factors correlated with gender but actually caused by their or their co-authors' competence as economists? If so, controlling for institution should reduce the gap. It does not.\
The gap forms dynamically at both the author- and article-levels---the latter by growing between drafting and publishing states, the former because a woman's writing gets clearer as she publishes more papers---preventing factors fixed in either direction from entirely resolving the difference. This rules out inborn gender differences or a one-off writing improvement in response to circumstances unrelated to peer review.\
Yet a variety of prospects are still feasible. I have frequently implied---or out-right proposed---one possibility: bias among journal referees. This single explanation neatly accounts for all observed patterns. If referees apply higher standards to female-authored papers, their papers will undergo more thorough review. Added scrutiny should improve women's exposition---as observed in [][p3workingpapers]---but lengthen review times---as seen in [][p3duration]. The rewards from clearer writing are presumably internalised, meaning women's writing should gradually improve---and it does, as illustrated in [][p3experience].\
An alternative hypothesis is that women are more conscientious and therefore more responsive to referee reports than men. Conscientiousness involves self-control, organisation, discipline and reflects one's ability to follow rules and pursue goals. More conscientious authors are presumably more responsive to referee reports. Thus, if women are more likely to possess this trait, the aggregate result could be systematic female inclination to write more clearly.\
Yet, as a rule, women *are not* more conscientious than men. While women score somewhat higher on certain components of conscientiousness---especially order, organisation and perfection[#Feingold1994]---these differences are not universally present in all cultures nor is a difference perceptible at the overall Big Five level[#Costa2001]. Moreover, gender differences in the conscientious traits that are significant decline---or even reverse---as people age. If perfectionism were driving gender differences in readability, the observed trend in [][p3experience]---effectively, women write more clearly as they age while men do not---should not be present.\
It is true. Women *are* more conscientious and therefore far more responsive to referee reports than men. That is, referees are indeed gender neutral but women's interpretation of those reports leads to a general female inclination to write more clearly.\
If this explanation is true, then women systematically allocate their time inefficiently. As shown in [][p3duration], female papers take longer in peer review, even after controlling for a large number of contributory factors, including motherhood. Thus, women's conscientiousness has no apparent upside---their papers are not reviewed faster---and a probable downside---diligently responding to every referee's whim and more clearly stating ideas is hard work. In this context, there is simply no rational explanation for women's behaviour---and especially for the behaviour of the profession's most productive female economists who make the largest investments in clear writing.\
 gap at both the article- and author-level and showed some or all of the gap at both levels forms dynamically. At the article-level, it forms inter temporally at between the drafting and publication phases. At the author-level, women are clearly internalising *
\i something
\i0 *, and that something is inducing them to write better and better text the more they publish.\
matching observed patterns in [][p3revisions]\
And as a whole, their papers will just be better written.\
I now explore several alternative explanations of the gender readability gap based on referees' gender neutrality.\
If readability scores are more gender neutral for first time publications, it's hard to argue that women are simply better writers. Likewise, it undermines the charge that women write better in reaction to discrimination faced in graduate school or earlier. For, if either were true a persistent gender difference should be present regardless of previous publication counts---and especially in the one with the largest sub-sample.\
I show that the gender readability gap has a dynamic component, thus ruling out explanations based on innate differences that are constant over time. I show that the gap grows---or arguably even forms---at precisely the time papers undergo peer review, meaning factors present while papers are being drafted are not the whole story. This down weights explanations involving university departmental factors. Assuming economists generally present papers at conferences at seminars *before* releasing them as NBER working papers.\
Women are innately better writers coupled with a greater likelihood of being non-native English speakers. The fact that women are innately better writers offsets their poorer English in initial papers. The rise in the readability of their papers over their career reflects the simple fact that their English is improving.\
The explanations remaining are broad, gender-based arguments based on intelligence, perception and conscientiousness. For such an explanation to be convincing, \
}