{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset204 PTMono-Regular;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green128\blue64;\red0\green0\blue128;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Prior research indicates journal acceptance rates are genuinely bias-free 
\f1 \cf2 [
\f0 \cf0 see, *
\i e.g.
\i0 *,
\f1 \cf2 \\]\\[]{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://116C306F-8AC6-4FB7-BD8E-655BCACD0137"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 [#Blank1991,Borsuk2009,Gilbert1994].}}
\f0 \cf0  To the best of my knowledge, however, gender neutrality is established in only a narrow context (publication outcomes) using this single indicator. I ask a different question. Men's and women's papers may be published at comparable *
\i rates
\i0 *, but are they reviewed with comparable *
\i scrutiny
\i0 *? For, if women are stereotypically assumed less capable at math, logic and reasoning than men and generally need more evidence to rate as equally competent, some well-intentioned referees might (unknowingly) inspect their papers more closely, demand a larger number of revisions and, in general, be less tolerant of complicated, dense writing.\
Complicated, dense writing is my focus. In the English language, more clearly written prose is better prose, all things equal. Thoughtful word choice and simple sentence structure make text easier to understand, more interesting to read and expose inconsistencies long-winded writing often hides. Journal editors tend to agree---*
\i Econometrica
\i0 * asks authors to write "crisply but clearly" and to take "the extra effort involved in revising and reworking the manuscript until it will be clear to most if not all of our readers" (
\f1 \cf3 [
\f0 \cf0 *
\i Econometrica
\i0 * submission guidelines
\f1 \cf3 ]{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A68520D6-DA41-4F80-82CE-8A79A1449157"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 (http://www.econometricsociety.org/publications/econometrica/information-authors/instructions-submitting-articles), 
\f0 \cf0 June 2016).}}
\f0 \cf0 \
If referees hold female- and male-authored papers to identical standards, both should be equally well written. To test this, I rely on a relationship familiar to linguists and educators: simple vocabulary and short sentences are easier to understand and straightforward to quantify. Using the five most widely used, studied and reliable formulas to exploit this, I analyse 9,123 article {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D4FCCCD0-37BB-44DA-A61F-528B40FACB0A"}}{\fldrslt abstracts}} published in the *
\i American Economic Review
\i0 * (*
\i AER
\i0 *), *
\i Econometrica
\i0 * (*
\i ECA
\i0 *), *
\i Journal of Political Economy
\i0 * (*
\i JPE
\i0 *) and *
\i Quarterly Journal of Economics
\i0 * {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://57D2C4BD-E46C-4C64-A317-261E2AFD95A8"}}{\fldrslt (*
\i QJE
\i0 *).}}\
Female-authored abstracts are 1--6 percent more readable than those by men. Women write better despite controls for editor, journal, year and primary and tertiary *
\i JEL
\i0 * classification; that remains unchanged when proxying for article and author quality or accounting for English fluency. This means the readability gap probably wasn't (i) a response to specific policies in earlier eras; (ii) caused by women writing on topics that are easier to explain; (iii) due to a lopsided concentration of (non-)native English {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3E2C0C62-D826-465D-881F-65BF02B45A56"}}{\fldrslt speakers;}} nor (iv) generated by factors correlated with gender but really related to knowledge, intelligence and creativity.\
Additionally, the gender readability gap widens *
\i during
\i0 * peer review. I compare National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) working papers to their final, published versions; the gap is almost twice as large for the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AE298081-7FB5-4E4C-8FA5-E7338351B331"}}{\fldrslt latter.}} While both papers are exposed to many factors that impact readability, only published articles are subject to peer review. By comparing the two, influences unrelated to immediate peer review are isolated from those that are; assuming the former are not correlated with the latter's timing, a widening gap suggests a causal link. Consistent with this hypothesis, I also find no evidence of a gender readability gap in the (small) number of articles subjected to double-blind peer review before the internet.\
Revising, redrafting and selecting just the right word is hard work; making sentences even marginally more readable takes time. Consistent with this hypothesis, I find female-authored papers spend ***
\i\b six months longer
\i0\b0 *** in peer review. This estimate is based on submit-accept times from *
\i Econometrica
\i0 *, persists across a range of specifications and, in addition to other factors, controls for motherhood,  childbirth, citations and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F383EB98-D599-47F7-A269-F897DD84E119"}}{\fldrslt field.}}\
Two explanations could account for these findings: either women voluntarily write better papers---*
\i e.g.
\i0 *, because they're more sensitive to referee criticism or overestimate the importance of writing well---or better written papers are women's response to external thresholds they do not control. Both imply women spend too much time rewriting old papers and not enough time writing new papers---but my evidence suggests the latter is primarily to blame.\
In a dynamic model of an author's decision making process, I show that if women improve their writing over time and are not commensurately rewarded with higher acceptance rates (relative to men), then a persistent readability gap between equivalent peers is caused by discrimination. Authors improve readability only if they believe better writing leads to higher acceptance rates. And while oversensitivity and/or poor information may distort their beliefs---and affect readability---the impact declines with experience. Holding acceptance rates constant, this implies that a widening readability gap between equivalent authors is caused by discrimination---*
\i i.e.
\i0 *, asymmetric editorial standards and/or biased referee assignment beyond their 
\f1 \cf3 [
\f0 \cf0 control
\f1 \cf3 ](#Theorem1)
\f0 \cf0 .\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf3 <$Scr_Cs::0>
\f1\fs28 [](#Theorem1)
\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::0>
\f0\fs28  establishes sufficient conditions to demonstrate double standards are present in academic publishing: (i) experienced women write better than experienced men; (ii) women improve their writing over time; (iii) female-authored papers are accepted no more often than male-authored papers. Estimates from pooled subsamples at fixed publication counts suggest (i) and (ii) hold. On average, women's writing gradually gets better but men's does not. Between authors' first and third published articles, the readability gap increases by up to 12 percent. Although my data do not identify probability of acceptance, conclusions from extensive study elsewhere are clear: "there are no sex differences in acceptance rates."
\f1 \cf2 [\\]\\[
\f0 \cf0 p. 111; see also 
\f1 \cf3 [][SEUMatching]
\f0 \cf0  for references to other research supporting this claim
\f1 \cf2 ][#Ceci2014]
\f0 \cf0 .\
I also match prolific female authors to similarly productive male authors on characteristics that predict the topic, novelty and quality of research. In addition to explicitly accounting for author equivalence---the (principle) conditional independence assumption behind 
\f2\fs24 \cf3 <$Scr_Cs::0>
\f1\fs28 [](#Theorem1)
\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::0>
\f0\fs28 ---matched pair comparisons: (i) identify the gender most likely to satisfy 
\f2\fs24 \cf3 <$Scr_Cs::0>
\f1\fs28 [](#Theorem1)
\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::0>
\f0\fs28 's conditions {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5B1EA799-241B-47BB-BC3C-9C7F11698108"}}{\fldrslt simultaneously;}} and (ii) generate a (conservative) estimate of the effect of higher standards on authors' 
\f1 \cf3 [
\f0 \cf0 readability
\f1 \cf3 ](#Corollary1)
\f0 \cf0 .\

\f2\fs24 \cf3 <$Scr_Cs::0>
\f1\fs28 [](#Theorem1)
\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::0>
\f0\fs28 's conditions were satisfied in 65 percent of matched pairs. In three quarters of those, the member discriminated against was female. Moreover, instances of obvious discrimination were predominately against women: the estimated effect of higher standards was almost twice as large in pairs suggesting discrimination against women; it clustered near zero for the small minority of pairs indicating discrimination against men. On average, higher standards cause senior female economists to write at least nine percent more clearly than they otherwise {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://77E0C585-FD35-4953-83B9-E0357359E391"}}{\fldrslt would.}}\
Asymmetric editorial standards and/or biased referee assignment affect women directly---as already discussed, women write more readably during and spend longer in peer review. They probably affect women's behaviour indirectly, too. As a final exercise, I compare papers pre- and post-review over increasing publication counts. In authors' earliest papers, the readability gap exclusively emerges during peer review; there is no gender difference in the draft readability of authors' first top publication. In later papers, women write well upfront; the gap chiefly materialises before peer review. Thus, female economists appear to adapt to higher standards *
\i in
\i0 * peer review by writing more clearly *
\i before
\i0 * peer review.}