{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green128\blue64;\red209\green9\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;\csgenericrgb\c81961\c3529\c5490;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Ladies, there aren't very many of us on economics faculties. Only a third, fifth and tenth of assistant, associate and full professors, respectively, are women
\f1 \cf2 [#Romero2013]
\f0 \cf0 . Compared to other faculties---including engineering and the physical sciences---female economists are less likely to make tenure, take longer when they do and earn significantly less than their male peers
\f1 \cf2 [#Ginther2004,Ceci2014]
\f0 \cf0 .\
These statistics are uncomfortable but their causes myriad: women's career choices, motherhood, a tendency to discourage girls from pursuing math and, yes, bias. Lab experiments suggest women are subject to tougher standards
\f1 \cf2 [#Foschi1996]
\f0 \cf0 , rated less qualified
\f1 \cf2 [#Reuben2014,Moss-Racusin2012]
\f0 \cf0  and given less credit than men
\f1 \cf2 [#Heilman2005]
\f0 \cf0 . In several surveys female academics report bias from their superiors, peers and students
\f1 \cf2 [see, *e.g.*,\\]\\[][#Williams2015]
\f0 \cf0 .\
Evidence of gender bias in academic publishing is harder to find. Although there is a tendency within the general population to rate articles assigned male names higher
\f1 \cf2 [#Goldberg1968,Paludi1983]
\f0 \cf0 , the population of journal referees appears remarkably bias-free
\f1 \cf2 [#Borsuk2009,Lloyd1990]
\f0 \cf0 . Nearly every investigation of individual journals---from the *
\i Journal of the American Medical Association
\i0 * to the *
\i American Economic Review
\i0 *---reports weak or no evidence that gender impacts acceptance {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F6F9EF68-A34E-45AE-946D-70B0DA274C81"}}{\fldrslt rates.}} Women, it appears, face bias everywhere *
\i except
\i0 * when submitting articles for peer-review.\
Undoubtedly, academic journals are paradigms of objectivity. Reviewers are people of science. Whether or not that science comes from a man, a woman or a chimpanzee is theoretically irrelevant. Nevertheless, reviewers are also human and humans of both sexes form preconceived gender stereotypes which frustrate disinterested {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3F9B3F30-EE3B-4D93-81B2-0B0C537919F1"}}{\fldrslt evaluation.}} If women are stereotypically  assumed less capable at math, logic and reasoning than men
\f1 \cf2 [#Reuben2014]
\f0 \cf0  and generally need more evidence to rate as equally competent
\f1 \cf2 [#Foschi2000]
\f0 \cf0  then by extension some well-intentioned reviewers might (unknowingly) scrutinise their papers more closely, demand a larger number of revisions and, in general, be less tolerant of complicated, dense writing.\
I concentrate on the third hypothesis: do reviewers require clearer, more concise writing from women than they do men? For, if referees hold female- and male-authored papers to identical standards, the latter should be just as coherently written as the former.\
I find that it is not. Using the Flesch Reading Ease, Flesch-Kincaid, Gunning Fog, Dale-Chall and SMOG scales, I analyse the readability of 9,123 article abstracts published in the *
\i American Economic Review
\i0 * (*
\i AER
\i0 *), *
\i Econometrica
\i0 * (*
\i ECA
\i0 *), *
\i Journal of Political Economy
\i0 * (*
\i JPE
\i0 *) and *
\i Quarterly Journal of Economics
\i0 * (*
\i QJE
\i0 *) from 1950--2015. Abstracts written by women are 2--6 percent more readable than those by men.\
First, women write better than men after controlling for editor, journal, year and *
\i JEL
\i0 * {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CC3B41FD-53EB-48EE-9CC6-0817DF2D9C14"}}{\fldrslt classification.}} Thus, the gap did not form in response to specific policies or time periods nor is it caused by women writing on topics that are easier to understand. The gap is unchanged despite proxies of article quality and author competency and productivity---meaning factors correlated with gender but actually related to knowledge, intelligence or creativity are not driving the gap.\
Second, I compare the readability of NBER working paper abstracts with the readability of their final, published versions. The gap indeed widens at precisely the moment papers undergo peer review. The difference is substantial---the gap is 1.5--3 times higher in published articles than it is in their working paper versions---and highly significant.\
Third, women write better as they publish more papers but men do not, so the readability gap widens over authors' careers. In fact, there is no significant gender difference in abstract readability for authors' first publication. The gap is therefore unlikely fully explained by either the residual impact of stricter writing standards for women at an earlier stage in their eduction or inherent gender differences in writing clarity. After that, however, the gap noticeably widens, and continues to grow: by their third publication in the data, women's papers are up to 12 percent more readable than mens. Growth is almost entirely because individual women become better writers as they publish more papers. Men, on the other hand, make virtually no improvements to their writing over the course of their lifetimes.\
Fourth, because writing simply and directly takes time, one observable repercussion should be prolonged peer review for female authors. This is indeed the case. Using data from *Econometrica*---and controlling for many factors, including whether the author was a mother to young children and/or gave birth during peer review---I estimate female-authored papers need six months longer to complete peer review. The figure is highly significant.\
Are female economists disproportionately native or fluent English speakers? Do men ignore editorial changes suggested by referees? Are female referees the toughest critics, and if so, are they more likely to review female-authored papers?\
These and several alternative hypotheses are discussed in detail; the most straightforward explanation, however, is that journal referees are less willing to overlook a wordy paragraph or convoluted sentence when its author is female---and women get the message. Unfortunately, by demanding clearer phrasing and less jargon, referees inadvertently subject women to an added time tax. \
Consider Esther Duflo. She co-authored 17 papers in the journals and time-periods covered by the data---more than any other woman. If she publishes her 18th paper with no male co-authors, it will be 30 percent more readable than, say, Steven Levitt's 18th publication: "Testing for Racial Differences in the Mental Ability of Young {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://02B2430D-3496-4E24-B556-C5BEF211CCDF"}}{\fldrslt Children".}} Should Ms. Duflo publish a 44th paper, it will be 75 percent more readable than Daron Acemoglu's 44th (and latest) paper was predicted to be and 116 percent more readable than it actually {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://03D9BF62-6A18-4875-B469-45FE15AC5986"}}{\fldrslt was.}} In this context, academia's "Publishing Paradox"---the unquestionable fact that men publish more journal articles than women---may not be such a paradox, after {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://148EB7D5-7084-4466-8E49-C0D32E634D2F"}}{\fldrslt all.}}\
Should journals cop all the blame? I doubt it. But by process of elimination they probably deserve at least part of it. First, women write better than men after controlling for primary *
\i JEL
\i0 * classification code, suggesting the gap is not the result of women writing on topics that are easier to explain.\
The gender readability gap may, however, stem from factors unrelated to journals but that I do not or cannot control for. For example, female economists may be disproportionately native or fluent English speakers or men may just ignore editorial changes suggested by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9476F292-005B-4023-B01B-BA799F818264"}}{\fldrslt referees.}} Alternatively, female referees are assigned papers from women more often than are male referees
\f1 \cf2 [#Gilbert1994]
\f0 \cf0 , so the gap may actually reflect gender differences in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://42C87FA9-369C-47BB-B8AC-E328A7869396"}}{\fldrslt reviewing.}}\
The most straightforward explanation, however, is that referees themselves are less willing to overlook a wordy paragraph or convoluted sentence when its author is female---and women get the message. In fact, since the late 1990s, women have *
\i really
\i0 * gotten the message. Although both male- and female-authored abstracts have become more readable since then, women's did so by significantly more. I cannot definitively say why this occurred but Google is my best guess and regressions of text readability on the number of annual Google searches suggest I may be on to something: each time search engine traffic doubled, the readability gap grew by at least 
\f1 \cf3 !!GoogleGrowth
\f0 \cf0  percent.\
As for double-blind review, it solves nothing and may make things worse. I find no evidence that it closes the gender readability gap and some evidence that it actually allows men to write sloppier. It's hard to square this with the policy's promise of anonymity and fairness other than to admit that double-blind review probably isn't that double-blind---even pre-internet almost half of *
\i AER
\i0 * referees correctly identified the authors they were "blindly" reviewing 
\f1 \cf2 [#Blank1991]
\f0 \cf0 .\
\
}