{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green128\blue64;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Ladies, we aren't that common in economics. Only a third, fifth and tenth of assistant, associate and full professors, respectively, are women
\f1 \cf2 [#Romero2013]
\f0 \cf0 . Compared to other faculties---including engineering and the physical sciences---female economists are less likely to make tenure, take longer when they do and earn significantly less than their male peers
\f1 \cf2 [#Ginther2004,Ceci2014,Sarsons2015]
\f0 \cf0 .\
These statistics are uncomfortable but their causes myriad: women's career choices, motherhood, a tendency to discourage girls from pursuing math and, yes, bias. Lab experiments suggest women are subject to tougher standards
\f1 \cf2 [#Foschi1996]
\f0 \cf0 , rated less qualified
\f1 \cf2 [#Reuben2014,Moss-Racusin2012]
\f0 \cf0  and given less credit than men
\f1 \cf2 [#Heilman2005]
\f0 \cf0 . In several surveys female academics report bias from their superiors, peers and students
\f1 \cf2 [see, *e.g.*,\\]\\[][#Williams2015]
\f0 \cf0 .\
Evidence of gender bias in academic publishing is harder to find. Although there is a tendency within the general population to rate articles assigned male names higher
\f1 \cf2 [#Goldberg1968,Paludi1983,Smyk2016]
\f0 \cf0 , the population of journal referees appears remarkably bias-free
\f1 \cf2 [#Borsuk2009,Lloyd1990]
\f0 \cf0 . Nearly every investigation of individual journals---from the *
\i Journal of the American Medical Association
\i0 * to the *
\i American Economic Review
\i0 *---reports weak or no evidence that gender impacts acceptance {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F6F9EF68-A34E-45AE-946D-70B0DA274C81"}}{\fldrslt rates.}} Women, it appears, face bias everywhere *
\i except
\i0 * when submitting articles for peer-review.\
Undoubtedly, academic journals are paradigms of objectivity. Reviewers are people of science. Whether or not that science comes from a man, a woman or a chimpanzee is theoretically irrelevant. Nevertheless, reviewers are also human and humans of both sexes form preconceived gender stereotypes which frustrate disinterested {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3F9B3F30-EE3B-4D93-81B2-0B0C537919F1"}}{\fldrslt evaluation.}} If women are stereotypically assumed less capable at math, logic and reasoning than men and generally need more evidence to rate as equally competent then by extension some well-intentioned reviewers might (unknowingly) scrutinise their papers more closely, demand a larger number of revisions and, in general, be less tolerant of complicated, dense writing.\
I concentrate on this third hypothesis. Do reviewers require clearer, more concise writing from women than they do men? For, if referees hold female- and male-authored papers to identical standards, the latter should be just as coherently written as the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2E4A6F9E-275E-4285-A641-305A15FBF0E8"}}{\fldrslt former.}}\
\
In the English language, a more clearly written paper is the better paper, all things equal. Thus, papers held to a general higher standard should be generally better written\
If female-authored papers *are* scrutinised more closely, they probably end up clearer and more concisely written than \
If female-authored papers *are* scrutinised more closely, \
Investigating this hypothesis directly requires access to confidential referee reports, which I do not have. Yet, if female-authored papers *
\i are
\i0 * scrutinised more closely, their papers probably reflect this. One way they might is in their readability. In the English language, a more clearly written paper is the better paper, all things equal.\
How they reflect it is unclear. Women's papers may contain more robustness checks or cite more thoroughly the literature. Alternatively, \
 use clearer, more concise language.\
I concentrate on this third hypothesis. In the English language, a more clearly written paper is the better paper, all things equal. Yet if female-authored papers are more heavily scrutinised and that scrutiny is unwarranted, \
Direct investigation requires referee reports, which are understandably private. Yet if unwarranted scrutiny is applied to female-authored papers, the quality of those papers should reflect this\
those papers should reflect that---and actually *be* higher quality. While quality is often subjective, on one dimension, it is not: in the English language, a more clearly written paper is the better paper, all else equal. Clearer writing takes less effort to understand---it is more "readable". And while readability itself is subjective, factors highly correlated with it are not, including simple, familiar vocabulary and short sentences.\
Hundreds of readability scores exist that exploit this relationship. I concentrate on the five more widely used, tested and reliable measures: The Flesch Reading Ease, Flesch-Kincaid, Gunning Fog, Dale-Chall and SMOG scales. With these scores, I analyse the readability of 9,123 article abstracts published in the *
\i American Economic Review
\i0 * (*
\i AER
\i0 *), *
\i Econometrica
\i0 * (*
\i ECA
\i0 *), *
\i Journal of Political Economy
\i0 * (*
\i JPE
\i0 *) and *
\i Quarterly Journal of Economics
\i0 * (*
\i QJE
\i0 *) between 1950--2015.\
I concentrate on the third hypothesis: do reviewers require clearer, more concise writing from women than they do men? For, if referees hold female- and male-authored papers to identical standards, the latter should be just as coherently written as the former. My identification strategy is effectively a process of elimination. I first establish that the readability gap exists. I next establish a causal link between the timing of peer review and formation (or widening) of the gap. Finally, I document numerous stylised facts about the gap that a coherent theory would need to account for.\
First, abstracts written by women are 2--6 percent more readable than those by men. Women write better despite controls for editor, journal, year and *
\i JEL
\i0 * classification; that remains unchanged when also proxying for article and author quality. This means the readability gap probably wasn't (i) a response to specific policies in earlier eras; (ii) caused by women writing on topics that are easier to explain; nor (iii) generated by factors correlated with gender but really related to knowledge, intelligence and creativity.\
Second, the readability gap widens during peer review. When comparing National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) working papers to their final, published versions, I find the latter's gap up to three times higher. Working paper readability is unsurprisingly highly correlated with a published article's readability, but explicitly controlling for it has little impact on gender differences---women's papers remain 2--4 percent better written. While both NBER working paper and their final published versions are exposed to other external influences that might impact readability, only the latter is exposed to the peer review process. By comparing readability in both papers, I can isolate additional effects of gender on readability relative to the consequences of such exposure before peer review. Assuming the precise timing of peer review is uncorrelated with other gender-specific factors that affect readability, this finding suggests a causal link between the process of peer review and the gap's formation.\
Third, there is no significant gender difference in abstract readability for authors' first publication in the data. Since readability scores are more gender neutral for first time publications, it's unlikely fully explained by either the residual impact of stricter writing standards for women at an earlier stage in their eduction or inherent gender differences in writing clarity. For, if either were true, a significant persistent gender difference should be present regardless of previous publication counts---and especially in the one with the largest sub-sample.\
Fourth, women's writing gradually gets better but men's does not, meaning the readability gap widens over authors' careers. Driving this growth are individual women making rhetorical improvements that men do not---by the third article, female prose is up to 12 percent clearer. Why would one gender continually invest in writing well but the other not? Additionally, although both first and subsequent publications are exposed to external influences that might impact readability, only the latter contain papers written *after* authors had been exposed to peer review. This suggests that female authors write well not merely in response to explicit criticism in referee reports, but also by internalising the experience and adapting for the next.\
Fifth, female-authored papers need six months longer to complete peer review. This estimate is based on data from *
\i Econometrica
\i0 *, controls for relevant factors---including whether the author was a mother to young children and/or gave birth during peer review---and is highly significant. Prolonged peer review for female authors makes sense---writing well takes time---but is also a cost borne especially by women.\
Several potential explanations are explored. Among them: Are female economists disproportionately native or fluent English speakers? Do men ignore editorial changes suggested by referees? Are female referees the toughest critics, and if so, are they more likely to review female-authored papers?\
The most straightforward explanation, however, is that journal referees are less willing to overlook a wordy paragraph or convoluted sentence when its author is female---and women get the message. Unfortunately, by demanding clearer phrasing and less jargon, referees inadvertently subject women to an added time tax.\
The contribution of this paper is threefold. Its primary contribution is to shed light on the peer review *process*. To the best of my knowledge, my study is the first not only to suggest bias could exist in the process despite its absence in the outcome, but also to document such evidence. \
to the best of my knowledge, it is the first study to document evidence of gender bias in the peer review process. \
As mentioned earlier, gender has no apparent impact on journal acceptance rates. But a gender neutral outcome does not preclude a gender neutral *process*---and to the best of my knowledge, my paper is the first to suggest it. Determining whether female economists are unfairly scrutinised in referee reports suffers from several identification issues, chief among them the fact that accessing those reports is impossible thanks to the privacy ensconced in peer review. To circumvent this limitation, my paper notes that *if* women are subject to greater scrutiny, and that added scrutiny \
}