{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green128\blue64;\red0\green0\blue128;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\sl288\slmult1\sa200

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
\
Ladies, we aren't that common in economics. Only a third, fifth and tenth of assistant, associate and full professors, respectively, are women[#Romero2013]. Female economists are less likely to make tenure, take longer when they do and earn much less than their male peers[#Bandiera2016,Ceci2014,Ginther2004,Sarsons2015,Weisshaar2014].
\fs24 \

\fs28 These statistics are uncomfortable, but their causes are myriad: lower publishing rates, career choices, motherhood and, probably, bias. In lab experiments women are subject to tougher standards. Their qualifications and ability are underestimated[#Foschi1996,Grunspan2016,Moss-Racusin2012,Reuben2014]. Female-authored manuscripts are evaluated more critically[#Goldberg1968,Krawczyk2016,Paludi1983]; when collaborating with men, women are given less credit[#Heilman2005,Sarsons2015].
\fs24 \

\fs28 Peer review is not immune. Using five reliable measures of writing clarity, I show that female-authored articles published in top economics journals are better written than equivalent papers by men.\
Additionally, this readability gap widens precisely while papers undergo peer review.\
Because better writing takes effort to compose, it likely prolongs female review time---indeed, I find female female-authored papers spend six months longer in peer review---and probably contributes to lower publishing rates.\
I explore many interpretations---*
\i e.g.
\i0 *, Are women more sensitive to criticism? Is better writing due to risk aversion? Do women's papers deserve more scrutiny because they aren't as good? The only straightforward explanation consistent with the data, however, is that referees apply higher standards to women\'92s writing. Because better writing takes effort to compose, higher standards prolong female review time---by six months at *
\i Econometrica
\i0 *---and likely contribute to lower publishing rates. Tougher standards applied more broadly reduce women\'92s output; ignoring them undervalues female labour and may confound estimates of gender discrimination.
\fs24 \

\fs28 Prior research indicates journal acceptance rates are genuinely bias-free {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8EBDAA68-E0D1-4E11-9A64-E5C171569313"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 [see, *e.g.*,\\]\\[][#Abrevaya2012,Blank1991,Borsuk2009,Gilbert1994,Lloyd1990]\cf0 .}} To the best of my knowledge, however, gender neutrality is established in only a narrow context (publication outcomes) using this single indicator. I ask a different question. Men's and women's papers may be published at comparable *
\i rates
\i0 *, but are they reviewed with comparable *
\i scrutiny
\i0 *? For, if women are stereotypically assumed less capable at math, logic and reasoning than men and generally need more evidence to rate as equally competent, some well-intentioned referees might (unknowingly) inspect their papers more closely, demand a larger number of revisions and, in general, be less tolerant of complicated, dense writing.
\fs24 \

\fs28 Complicated, dense writing is my focus. In the English language, more clearly written prose is better prose, all things equal. Thoughtful word choice and simple sentence structure make text easier to understand, more interesting to read and expose inconsistencies long-winded writing often hides. Journal editors tend to agree---*
\i Econometrica
\i0 * asks authors to write "crisply but clearly" and to take "the extra effort involved in revising and reworking the manuscript until it will be clear to most if not all of our readers" {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B0C6E195-193F-468B-9E0C-0FCD4AED2BEB"}}{\fldrslt (\cf3 [*Econometrica* submission guidelines](http://www.econometricsociety.org/publications/econometrica/information-authors/instructions-submitting-articles)\cf0 , June 2016).}}
\fs24 \

\fs28 If referees hold female- and male-authored papers to identical standards, both should be equally well written. To test this, I rely on a relationship familiar to linguists and educators: simple vocabulary and short sentences are easier to understand and straightforward to quantify. Using the five most widely used, studied and reliable formulas to exploit this, I analyse 9,123 article {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://DDA0795F-1641-4FD8-BC7E-80AF4552FA6E"}}{\fldrslt abstracts}} published in the *
\i American Economic Review
\i0 * (*
\i AER
\i0 *), *
\i Econometrica
\i0 * (*
\i ECA
\i0 *), *
\i Journal of Political Economy
\i0 * (*
\i JPE
\i0 *) and *
\i Quarterly Journal of Economics
\i0 * {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FB942019-AC6E-4C18-966E-332D5FC90A56"}}{\fldrslt (*
\i QJE
\i0 *).}}
\fs24 \

\fs28 I find female-authored abstracts are 1--6 percent more readable than those by men. Women write better despite controls for editor, journal, year and primary and tertiary *
\i JEL
\i0 * classification; that remains unchanged when proxying for article and author quality. This means the readability gap probably wasn't (i) a response to specific policies in earlier eras; (ii) caused by women writing on topics that are easier to explain; nor (iii) generated by factors correlated with gender but really related to knowledge, intelligence and creativity.
\fs24 \

\fs28 Additionally, the gender readability gap widens during peer review. I compare National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) working papers to their final, published versions; the gap is three times larger for the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2E66C049-2C9E-42BA-B217-93037425FD7A"}}{\fldrslt latter.}} While both papers are exposed to many factors that impact readability, only published articles are subject to peer review. By comparing the two, influences unrelated to immediate peer review are isolated from those that are; assuming the former are not correlated with the latter's timing, a widening gap suggests a causal link.\
PARAGRAPH ON SPENDING 6 MONTHS LONGER IN PEER REVIEW\
Two possible explanations can account for this gap: either referees subject female-authored papers to added scrutiny, or women choose themselves to exert more effort. Both possibilities imply women spend more time than men on a given task. On the positive side, it increases quality; on the other hand, it reduces quantity. Either could explain academia's "Publishing Paradox". Unequal time spent making revisions leads to unequal time conducting new research; as a result, women write fewer papers.\
Nevertheless, I find the more plausible explanation is indeed because referees subject female-authored papers to greater scrutiny. First, women's writing gradually gets better but men's does not---meaning gender differences in (i) biology/behaviour and/or (ii) knowledge about the advantages of writing well cannot resolve the gap. According to both interpretations, readability essentially diverges because women voluntarily accept the costs of good writing (longer drafting and revision stages) despite receiving no tangible benefit (acceptance rates do not {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://10CAF88C-C9BF-4FC7-949E-5FA9AE6741B9"}}{\fldrslt change).}} Initially, this explanation is perfectly plausible; indefinitely, it is not: wouldn't individual women eventually figure out there's nothing to gain by writing well---and then do it {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://815CC42F-DF6F-4F01-8955-8A6404CB19A5"}}{\fldrslt less?}} If so, gender differences in readability should decline as authors gain experience in peer review.\
Instead, they increase. Between authors' first and third published articles, the gap grows by 12 percent. Evidence does not suggest senior female economists co-author with more women. Nor are initially bad female writers leaving academia. Instead, women---and only women---seem to figure out that writing well makes peer review smoother; they write subsequent papers clearer from the start.\
Points one to three provide strong evidence that peer review is at least partially responsible for better writing in female-authored papers. But is it given that female-authored papers invite undue scrutiny? In [][p3alternatives], I explore several alternative hypotheses---many of which have nothing to do with bias and some that exonerate peer review, too. Among them: Are female economists disproportionately native English speakers? Are female referees the toughest critics, and, if so, are they more likely to review female-authored papers? Do manuscripts written by women deserve more criticism because they aren\'92t as good?\
As [][p3Alternatives] also illustrates, however, the only straightforward explanation consistent with the data is that referees are disproportionately critical of female-authored papers. Clearer sentences, less jargon and more scrutiny aren\'92t bad things. Added attention reduces discriminatory outcomes{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8D6E4ACA-E86C-4149-8AE8-2FD215F32353"}}{\fldrslt [#Bartos2016].}} It doubtless leads to a better final product: papers that are easier to understand enjoy wider, more diverse readership; closer review catches logical mistakes and leads to fewer factual errors.\
Still, adding robustness checks, clarifying proofs and making sentences even marginally more readable takes {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A317BD2B-6C6B-49EA-A9C2-F4EFC74411D9"}}{\fldrslt time.}} [][p3AppendixModel] illustrates this idea using [#Bartos2016;]\'92s formative model linking discrimination and attention. The major change is a simple extension that assumes referees pass on to authors some of the cost of evaluating their {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://841E3B10-18C7-4B31-A5FD-96637D347ECC"}}{\fldrslt papers.}} This prolongs peer review directly---referees spend more time evaluating women\'92s papers and women spend more time responding---and indirectly---female authors take longer drafting future papers. \
I estimate the direct effect results in female-authored papers spending ***
\i\b six months longer
\i0\b0 *** in peer review. This estimate is based on submit-accept times at *Econometrica*, is consistent across a range of specifications and, in addition to other factors, controls for motherhood and giving {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://937AD2DA-42D1-41BF-965F-B2B361305AAE"}}{\fldrslt birth.}} It appears to dominate in papers written by early career academics. In fact, there is very little gender difference in readability in the draft version of an authors' first publication---although a large difference does emerge by the time those same articles are actually published. The indirect effect---i.e., women spending more time upfront drafting their papers---increasingly dominates as women gain experience in peer review.\
In [][xxxx], I look at the indirect effect. I find the direct effect dominates among early career academics; the indirect effect dominates later in their careers. There is very little gender difference in readability in the draft version of authors' first publication---although a significant difference does emerge by the time those articles are eventually published. Initial drafts of women's second publications, however, are already much better written than men's---evidence of an indirect effect---although the still further widens during peer review.\
Spending six more months in peer review may explain academia's "Publishing Paradox". Unequal time spent making revisions leads to unequal time conducting new research; as a result, women write fewer papers. \
undoubtedly hurting women\'92s productivity and probably, as a consequence, promotion rates, too.\
 explain academia \'93Publishing Paradox\'94: \
Higher standards impose quantity vs. quality tradeoffs that may may explain lagging female wages and productivity, more generally. Work that is evaluated more critically *
\i at any point in the production process
\i0 * will be systematically better (holding prices fixed) or systematically cheaper (holding quality fixed). This reduces women's wages---for example, if judges require better writing in female-authored briefs, female attorneys must charge lower fees and/or under-report hours to compete with men---and distorts measurements of female productivity---billable hours and client revenue decline; female lawyers appear less productive than they truly are.\
Higher standards impose quantity vs. quality tradeoffs that characterise many instances of female output. According to raw numerical counts, women produce less than men. Female academics publish fewer academic journals[#Ceci2014]; female physicians see fewer patients{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7408ACC5-EFEF-4D83-A9F3-64B050EC2625"}}{\fldrslt [#Bloor2008]}} and submit fewer grant proposals[#Gordon2009,Klos2013]; female reporters write fewer front-page bylines[#Crozier1999]; female novelists produce less nonfiction output[#Waisbren2008]; female real estate agents list fewer homes[#Trulia2011].\
When ranked by narrowly defined outcome measures, however, women generally outperform men. Female students earn better grades[#Voyer2014]; female auditors are more accurate and efficient[#Chung2001,ODonnell2001,Ittonen2013,Niskanen2011]; congresswomen secure more federal funding for their districts, sponsor more legislation and score higher on a composite measure of legislative effectiveness[#Anzia2011,Volden2013]; houses listed by female real estate agents sell for higher prices{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://648B1C28-3ED9-4B1D-B336-E55E81BB7409"}}{\fldrslt [#Seagraves2013,Salter2012];}} patients treated by female physicians are less likely to die or be readmitted to hospital[#Tsugawa2016]; female pilots are involved in fewer fatal accidents{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://DDDC7559-6AED-453C-B471-8AC9636FF032"}}{\fldrslt [#Vail1986,Bazargan2011].}} Moreover, evidence on work habits suggests women espouse traits---conscientiousness, tenacity and diligence---that are likely correlated with quality: female physicians consult longer with patients[#Roter2004]; female politicians fundraise more aggressively{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://157774FC-21A4-47B2-807A-D1AAC2E88293"}}{\fldrslt [#Jenkins2007];}} female faculty commit fewer instances of academic misconduct[#Fang2013]; female lawyers make fewer ethical violations[#Hatamyar2004]; female pharmacists are less likely to face performance-related disciplinary action{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://EB4691B3-7E5D-4BC6-86EA-EC76BA1AF719"}}{\fldrslt [#Schafheutle2011].}}\
Many of these differences are undoubtedly influenced by innate gender differences in biology and behaviour. Irrespective of their origin, however, most have intrinsic value that, under normal circumstances should be appropriately rewarded in an unbiased marketplace. Property listed by female real estate agents sell for higher prices; in the absence of higher standards, women would charge more to sell a house. They do not[#Trulia2011]. Patients treated by female physicians are less likely to die or be readmitted to hospital, in the absence of higher standards, visiting a female doctor would cost more. It does not[#XXXXXX]. Congresswomen are better legislators; in the absence of higher standards, they would be elected at higher rates. They are not[#XXXX]. Female-authored manuscripts are better written; in the absence of higher standards, women's papers would be published in academic journals at higher rates. They are not[#Ceci2014].\
The impact on productivity may be even more subtle. I find senior women submit better written papers *
\i ex ante
\i0 * to offset biased evaluation *
\i ex post
\i0 *. Assuming women routinely internalise higher standards in related roundabout ways, they could contribute to more general labour market phenomena---*
\i e.g.
\i0 *, sectoral and occupational gender concentration[see, *e.g.*,\\]\\[][#Blau2016,Cortes2016,Pertold-Gebicka2016] and women's tendency to apply only to jobs for which they are fully qualified[for a discussion, see, *
\i e.g.
\i0 *,\\]\\[][#Mohr2014]. In academia, fewer papers justifies lower promotion rates, which in turn may contribute to a "Leaky Pipeline" as women seek fairer employment opportunities, elsewhere.\
This paper primarily contributes to research on the impact of biased evaluation on productivity measurement[for theories specific to academia, see, *e.g.*,\\]\\[][#Lee2016,Bright2016]. Higher standards raise quality at the expense of quantity. Performance indicators that weight the latter's fall more heavily than the former's rise appear artificially low. In economics, the argument was most recently made in a study of racial preferences in Major League Baseball[#Parsons2011]. The authors find that race affects umpire calls, umpire calls influence players' behaviour and players' behaviour impacts performance metrics. As a result, common baseball statistics underestimate the talent of disadvantaged (usually minority) pitchers and overestimate the talent of advantaged (usually white) pitchers. An important contribution of my paper is to confirm this general point both in the context of gender discrimination and within a highly educated, professional working environment.\
This suggests using using caution when employing shallow performance indicators to explain gender wage gaps. Interpretations that don't assume men and women produce work of comparable quality. If used to explain gender wage gaps, they will undervalue women's work and may confound estimates of labour market discrimination.
\fs24 \

\fs28 This paper also suggests a novel technical instrument that may be used to overcome bias inherent in measures of subjective evaluation. In the presence of higher standards, subjective quality measures are themselves biased. I use readability formulas to overcome this problem. Readability formulas are transparent, objective and accurate measures of one component on which papers are evaluated during peer review--writing clarity. Similar tests to expose higher quality work may uncover higher standards in a variety of situations: successful business proposals, published "letters to the editor" or annual report introductions. Readability scores could also be employed to produce more accurate measures of labour market wage gaps---by instrumenting for unobserved bias in the subjective productivity measures themselves. Readability scores have their limitations [see][p3MeasuringReadability] and their use in this manner applies to just a narrow set of questions. Nevertheless, they appear to be a largely ignored, naturally occurring source of pseudo-experiments relevant to research on gender or racial bias---and differential group treatment, more generally.
\fs24 \

\fs28 Finally, I hope this paper contributes to research seeking precise explanations for the persistent gender wage gap. Evidence suggests women do not bargain for higher salaries and may be less willing to work in competitive environments. Women may be penalised for taking on too much responsibility at home, and jobs may be structured to reward long, flexible hours---a situation that tends to favour men[#Goldin2016]. To these explanations I add the idea that women are still subjected to a form of discrimination that manifests itself as higher standards. Gender wage gaps then emerge when the positive side of higher standards---better quality output---are not commensurately rewarded. To the extent that higher standards require time investments and induce similar behavioural adjustments that reduce the quantity of female output, they may even produce superficial productivity measures that mask their effect.
\fs24 \

\fs28 The remainder of this paper is organised as follows. \cf3 [][p3Data]\cf0  describes the data and readability measures used in the analysis. \cf3 [][p3Results]\cf0  presents results; a detailed discussion (including possible explanations) comes next (\cf3 [][p3Discussion]\cf0 ). \cf3 [][Conclusion]\cf0  concludes.}