{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue64;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Firms that need large capital outlays may not get credit any time insolvency involves reorganisation. When those procedures are expensive, however, even projects with low upfront investment needs and high expected earnings are at risk. As discussed in 
\f1 \cf2 [][rescue_culture]
\f0 \cf0 , wasteful reorganisation exacerbates moral hazard and opportunistic behaviour by weakening creditors' bargaining positions during workouts. Even if formal procedures are rarely used, reducing their cost should still improve the lending environment.\
This is indeed what I find empirically. Using data from a broad, cross-country, firm-level survey conducted over several years, I show cheaper reorganisation is significantly and consistently correlated with lower self-reported obstacles to finance. This finding supports empirical work suggesting that lenders are less willing to make loans, charge higher interest rates, require shorter maturities and demand more collateral in countries with weak creditor protections
\f1 \cf3 [#Qian2007]
\f0 \cf0 . Ironically, rescue attempts in these countries are rarely successful
\f1 \cf3 [#Djankov2008]
\f0 \cf0  and official procedures seldom used
\f1 \cf3 [#Claessens2005]
\f0 \cf0 .\
Poorly informed and/or biased courts are thought to exacerbate the problem---possibly spawning a glut of distressed firms kept alive at creditors' expense
\f1 \cf3 [*e.g.*, Hungary, see\\]\\[][#Franks2013]
\f0 \cf0 . General law and economics theory suggest eliminating this kind of under-liquidation requires judicial accuracy. The literature focuses on how best to coax honesty out of disputing parties{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://00598647-2F15-4B61-9F78-B56401BA7F6E"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf3 [see, *e.g.*,\\]\\[][#Milgrom1986,Milgrom1981]
\f0 \cf0 .}} Different models recommend various designs that induce truth-telling
\f1 \cf3 [see, *e.g.*,\\]\\[][#Fishman1990,Hay1997,Shin1994,Shin1998,Sobel1985]
\f0 \cf0 , thereby improving the quantity and quality of information the judge has at her disposal. It follows, therefore, that better information helps judges distinguish between viable and non-viable firms and leads to more desirable outcomes in bankruptcy
\f1 \cf3 [see, *e.g.*,\\]\\[][#Ayotte2007,Bergman2007]
\f0 \cf0 .\
Possibly, however, low quality information performs a public service. When reorganisation is expensive, poorly informed bankruptcy courts are more likely to liquidate high-earning firms---forcing them to accept greater responsibility during {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://535564EE-A430-43AF-BEA5-D3703195595E"}}{\fldrslt workouts.}} The most informative signal is therefore not necessarily the ideal signal; judicial error may partially correct for a dysfunctional reorganisation {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://36D85EB0-8959-4FE9-93FA-186DE87870F6"}}{\fldrslt system.}}\
The relationship between judicial accuracy and lending depends on firm-specific characteristics which are unidentifiable from the data. To partially overcome this, I simulate a choice occasion (is finance an obstacle or not?) for subgroups of firms with similar traits and apply a mixed logit model. It appears better informed courts significantly increase self-reported financing obstacles for roughly two-thirds of firms but reduce it for the rest. I find no such heterogeneity when similarly evaluating reorganisation's cost.\
Without data on surveyed firms' capital investments I cannot definitively attribute these disparate responses to the prediction of the model. Nevertheless, it is telling that heterogeneity is concentrated in countries with Chapter 11-style bankruptcy procedures. Where receivership is employed (see 
\f1 \cf2 [][rescue_culture]
\f0 \cf0 , 
\f1 \cf2 [][p1policy_implications]
\f0 \cf0 ) more information is undeniably a good thing---and coincides with prior empirical work in which borrower information positively affects private sector lending
\f1 \cf3 [see, *e.g.*,\\]\\[][#Jappelli2002,Love2003,Galindo2001,Berger2005,Brown2009]
\f0 \cf0 .\
In the next section, I theoretically deduce the impact of the cost of reorganisation and quality and depth of financial information using the model of 
\f1 \cf2 [][rescue_culture]
\f0 \cf0 . 
\f1 \cf2 [][p2Data]
\f0 \cf0  describes the data; 
\f1 \cf2 [][p2strategy]
\f0 \cf0  outlines the empirical strategy; 
\f1 \cf2 [][p2Results]
\f0 \cf0  presents results.}