{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green128\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 To account for credit-rationing and control for firm-specific characteristics, I use data from the World Enterprise Surveys (WES). The WES are a series of company surveys conducted by the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). They cover business constraints in emerging and developing markets. The surveys start in 2005 and are generally repeated every three {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://44E708DE-F011-42CD-B11E-94583D674CAA"}}{\fldrslt years.}} They contain 117,105 observations from 135 countries.\
One question asks the degree to which access to finance---including interest rates, fees and collateral---is an obstacle to business operations. Answers range from 0 (no obstacle) to 4 (very severe obstacle). I define 
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{obstacle\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  as a binary variable equal to 1 if firm 
\f1 \cf2 $i$
\f0 \cf0 's response was moderate (2) or above---roughly half the sample.\
Additionally, I control for several firm-specific characteristics. 
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{Age\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  is the difference between the year firm 
\f1 \cf2 $i$
\f0 \cf0  was established and the year in which the survey took place. 
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{Size\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  distinguishes between small (fewer than 20 employees), medium and large (more than 100 employees) companies in ascending order from 0 to 2. 
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{Exporter\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  is a binary variable equal to 1 if the firm exports all or part of its output; 
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{foreign-owned\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  and 
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{state-owned\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  equal 1 if the firm is partly or wholly foreign- or state-owned, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://121652F4-C222-4131-AEBA-667BBA17779E"}}{\fldrslt respectively.}} 
\f1 \cf2 $\\text\{Manufacturing\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  equals 1 if firm 
\f1 \cf2 $i$
\f0 \cf0  operates in the manufacturing industry.\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0B221619-DD35-4F42-8099-51984277B64C"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p2table1)}}summarises these variables. Surveyed firms tend to be small, privately owned operations that produce for the domestic market. Export status, foreign ownership and size are the same for firms reporting finance as an obstacle compared to those that don't. State-owned firms are less likely to find financing an obstacle, but the difference is slight. Younger firms and those in manufacturing, however, have a significantly tougher time accessing finance than their older, service-oriented peers.}