{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf120
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Bankrupt firms have two alternatives: restructure debt, reorganise the firm and continue operating or fire workers, liquidate assets and shut down. If the parties cannot agree, or when employment law restricts collective dismissals, the courts are left to impose one outcome or the other. In this paper, I examine how costly and cumbersome reorganisation, inflexible labour markets and judicial accuracy interact to affect lending rateand earnings. Under these circumstances, are well-informed judges and out-of-court settlements always a good thing? Are creditors who "hold up" negotiations always a bad thing?\
My starting point is that reorganisation is time-consuming, arduous and expensive. United Airlines spent $250 million on legal and professional services related to its reorganisation; World\\\\-Com topped out at $620 million [#Berk2009]. In New York, procedures last three years [#Weiss1990] and fees eat up 2--4 percent of firm value {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://87CB9347-D3BE-4B60-A79B-EFFFB6D5F7A0"}}{\fldrslt [#LoPucki2004,Warner1977,Weiss1990].}} Customers are reticent to buy goods[#{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C4925C1F-A144-4D38-8316-8E2E92072553"}}{\fldrslt Titman1984],}} suppliers hesitate to provide {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C7345778-DDE5-4938-8068-3C29BF4BAE87"}}{\fldrslt inventory}} and employees leave[#{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B200B080-100E-4B3E-A27D-714D62408813"}}{\fldrslt Berk2010].}}\
Reorganisation is also easily exploited by equity holders, managers and bankruptcy administrators. Financial distress encourages over-investment and excessive risk-taking[#Jensen1976,Bebchuk2002], misuse of company assets[e.g.,\\]\\[][#Johnson2000] and fire sales[see\\]\\[][#{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1104FF8A-DFB3-4806-B645-CD1258673752"}}{\fldrslt Shleifer1992].}} Hungarian bankruptcy administrators delay liquidation[#Franks2013]. Their counterparts in Russia embezzle cash[#Lambert-Mogiliansky2007].\
This paper acknowledges the cost of reorganisation as a deadweight loss separate and larger than that of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AC81672D-8C13-4905-A88C-AA6242FBC357"}}{\fldrslt liquidation,}} thus distinguishing it from previous theoretical research which has argued its non-existence[#Haugen1978,Haugen1988], considered it only in the context of increasing liquidation risk[#Titman1984,Berk2010], or assumed it was at least partially captured by business owners[#Ayotte2007,Bolton1996].\
I find reorganisation's costs contribute a great deal to expensive debt and credit-rationing. Reducing it strengthens earnings and lending. This supports empirical work suggesting that lenders are less willing to make loans in countries with weak creditor protection. When they do, they charge higher interest rates, require shorter maturities and demand more collateral[#Qian2007]. Ironically, rescue attempts in these countries rarely manage to successfully rehabilitate firms[#Djankov2008].\
The corroding effect of costly reorganisation lingers even when out-of-court settlements dominate and bankruptcy is hardly used. While settlements undoubtably reduce wasteful reliance on an ineffective bankruptcy regime, little of these gains accrue to creditors and so have limited impact on lending. This supplements the view that inefficiencies persist even when settlements are reached[e.g.,\\]\\[][#Gertner1991], but contradicts other work suggesting workouts, when possible, are always beneficial[e.g.,\\]\\[][#Bulow1978,White1980,White1983].\
One potential (and partial) fix is to increase the number of creditors. Multiple creditors exacerbate holdups making it harder to reach a settlement. I argue, however, that as long as holdups don't block a settlement, their presence boosts creditors' negotiating power. Since a deal struck with one intransigent debt holder extends to all others in his class, creditor returns rise and lending increases. This perspective complements that of[#Bolton1996;], who propose multiple lenders reduce borrowers' incentive to strategically default. It also suggests that the risks inherent in new "crowdfunding" investment platforms may be lower than anticipated[#OConnor2013,Leber2013].\
My next point is that labour market regulations don't always make liquidation so easy. Most contract theory assumes firms have the freedom to shut down whenever they wish[e.g.,\\]\\[][#Berkovitch1990,Hart1998,Bolton1996]. Liquidating a project, however, involves collective dismissals, which are tightly regulated[#{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8D2CC356-B25E-4729-BC11-6AF7BDE1025F"}}{\fldrslt OECD2013].}}  This means lengthy consultations with employment representatives, court procedures, expensive redundancy packages and rcd etraining costs. Although usually allowed for economic reasons, those reasons are narrowly defined and generally exclude low profitability, share price declines or waning {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7AAA2FEE-D349-4DDD-9CD9-0921B95435F9"}}{\fldrslt sales.}} In most countries, collective dismissals are really only a last resort[#Muller2012].\
This paper recognises how difficult it is to fire employees unless a firm is actually bankrupt. By comparing a legal environment which allows collective dismissals only within bankruptcy to one which permits them whenever, I show that, as with reorganisation's costs, a restrictive labour market contributes to more expensive and less available debt. Providing distressed  entrepreneurs with the freedom to dismiss workers at will improves the lending environment. Extending that right to solvent firms increases earnings, although has no further impact on lending.\
My final point concerns judicial accuracy. Poorly informed and/or biased courts create jurisdictions like Hungary: glued to a glut of distressed firms kept alive at creditors' expense[#Franks2013]. How does this happen? [#Gennaioli2010;] think judicial bias, forum {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CFE94770-6DDA-4006-BC1F-1AFE63AB169A"}}{\fldrslt shopping,}} and the desire to try large {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8F4A4090-3779-4670-92B0-C8D0D2CA0095"}}{\fldrslt cases}} have something to do with it: judicial bias means some jurisdictions are friendlier to debtors while others are nicer to creditors; forum shopping means firms file for bankruptcy in debtor-friendly jurisdictions; the desire to attract future high-profile cases means even pro-creditor courts may increasingly favour {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1CFACA71-F853-4ED0-A02B-A0B1713EDE03"}}{\fldrslt debtors.}}\
General law and economics literature suggests eliminating this kind of under-liquidation requires judicial accuracy. It focuses on how best to coax honesty out of disputing parties[e.g.,\\]\\[][#Milgrom1981,Milgrom1986]. In a typical game, a judge resolves the conflict by ruling in favour of one side or the other. She hopes her ruling is socially optimal, but insufficient information and each party's incentive to exaggerate his grievance means she's never certain what the socially optimal choice actually is. Different models suggest various designs which induce truth-telling[see, e.g.,\\]\\[][#Shin1998,Fishman1990,Hay1997,Shin1994,Sobel1985], thereby improving the quantity and quality of information the judge has at her disposal. It follows, therefore, that better information helps judges distinguish between viable and non-viable firms, and leads to more desirable outcomes in bankruptcy[see, e.g.,\\]\\[][#Ayotte2007,Bergman2007].\
I argue, however, that judicial accuracy may have its drawbacks. When reorganisation is expensive and labour markets restrictive, poorly informed yet unbiased bankruptcy courts lower earnings and stiffen the lending market for the most and least profitable firms: the former are less likely reorganised while the latter less less likely liquidated. The economically inefficient outcome is more probable. For those in the middle, however, mistakes make liquidation more likely, which, despite the firm's relatively high earnings potential, is actually profit maximising given the high cost of reorganisation.\
What distinguishes my analysis from the earlier law and economics literature is scope. Previous papers began with a conflict in an otherwise frictionless market and found quality information linearly tracks the socially optimal outcome. My analysis starts with a loan application, weaves in restrictive employment and bankruptcy laws and proposes instead that the optimal level of information balances ex ante credit rationing with ex post profit maximisation. In this respect, my model is similar to one by[#Bernhardt2004;] who illustrate that higher quality information may lead to outcomes ex post which induce suboptimal behaviour ex ante. Like them, I find the most informative signal is not always the ideal signal: judicial error may, in fact, perform a public service by partially correcting for a dysfunctional reorganisation system. The cost is over-liquidation [see\\]\\[][#Mooradian1994,White1994] and short-term investment [see\\]\\[][#Dewatripont1995,vonThadden1995] but the benefit is greater lending and maybe even higher earnings.\
This paper proceeds as follows. In [][basicmodel] I discuss the basic model. [][renegotiation] allows borrowers and lenders to renegotiate the debt contract outside formal procedures and illustrates holdouts' potentially positive effect on the lending market. [][flexiblelabourlaw] introduces a flexible labour market in the form of relaxed restrictions on collective dismissals. [][conclusion] summarises the findings and concludes the paper. [][proofs] contains all proofs; it is followed by [][extensions] in which the model is solved as various assumptions are relaxed.}