{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf120
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Bankrupt firms have two alternatives: restructure debt, reorganise the firm and continue operating or fire workers, liquidate assets and shut down. When parties cannot agree, courts are left to impose one outcome or another. In this paper, I examine how costly and cumbersome reorganisation and judicial accuracy interact to affect lending and earnings\
My starting point is that reorganisation is time-consuming, arduous and expensive. United Airlines spent $250 million on legal and professional services related to its reorganisation; WolrdCom topped out at $620 million[#Berk2009]. In New York, procedures last three years[#Weiss1990] and fees eat up 2--4 percent of firm value[#LoPucki2004,Warner1977,Weiss1990]. Customers are reticent to buy goods[#Titman1984], suppliers hesitate to provide inventory and employees leave[#Berk2010]. Financial distress encourages misuse of company assets[#Johnson2000] and fire sales[#Shleifer1992]. Hungarian bankruptcy trustees delay liquidation[#Franks2013]; their counterparts in Russia embezzle cash[#Lambert-Mogiliansky2007].\
These costs matter. I show that irrespective of how creditor-friendly a bankruptcy code may be---and sometimes because of it---high reorganisation costs contribute to expensive debt, delayed liquidation, suboptimal investment decisions and credit rationing. Limited liability makes creditors disproportionately responsible for reorganisation's impact on future earnings. Insolvent borrowers exploit this imbalance by demanding excessive debt write-downs in obvious violation to absolute priority. Not only does this cut creditor earnings, but it incentivises delayed liquidation. Voluntary liquidation requires a premium: the project's liquidation value must offset the "haircut" debt holders would concede in a workout.\
Despite bad incentives, frequently suboptimal continuation and sometimes even bankruptcy, firms which should liquidate earlier face few serious upfront repercussions in the lending market. In fact, thanks to a wider array of contracting options---and despite a perfectly competitive credit market---lending to firms most prone to bankruptcy can actually be profitable. High interest rates encourage bankruptcy, sure, but when they are very high---or reorganisation very costly---it's no better than liquidation; entrepreneurs are indifferent so creditors liquidate\'85pocketing all of the firm's earnings in the process. If creditors only recuperate an initial investment when liquidation is guaranteed,  exorbitant interest rates are the sole means to credit---but also a money making opportunity for lenders in an otherwise zero profit industry.\
Insolvent firms which ought to continue always do---in settlements known as workouts. Firms with high expected earnings relative to their upfront investment costs have the most to gain from a workout. Unfortunately, so do their creditors. Not only will their owners never willingly liquidate, but if put to a judge she will likely agree. Reorganisation is not just expensive, it's also probable. Bankruptcy has real consequences and creditors a real desire to avoid it so they easily acquiesce to intemperate write-downs.\
Potential borrowers lose. Workouts avoid wasteful reliance on an ineffective bankruptcy regime but the write-downs borrowers extract from lenders are still proportional to the cost of that regime. As is often the case, however, it is firms' pre-borrowing selves and solvent peers who really pay that cost. For some, credit is merely more expensive. For others, it is rationed---higher interest rates induce more workouts so some firms do not get credit no matter how much they are willing to pay.\
And a third type gets credit only by inducing premature liquidation. When lending to purchase the "optimal" asset---one which maximises total earnings---is unprofitable, firms buy a more expensive version of that same asset to credibly promise a better chance of liquidation in the event of insolvency. More expensive assets increase both judges' likelihood of liquidating firms and firm owners' desire to voluntarily do so themselves. Consequently, sufficient product variety---e.g., John Deere tractors with optional add-ons such as air-conditioning, blue-tooth and surround-sound speakers--- is enough to guarantee lending.\
Bankruptcy was conceived to prevent firms which ought to continue from breaking up due to the circumstances of insolvency. The U.K. Insolvency Act 1986 introduced reorganisation because many firms were thought unnecessarily liquidated---or left to fail---despite a reasonable chance of survival[#Cork1982]. Society benefits, it was assumed: profits are maximised, creditors' long-term interests were upheld and, perhaps most importantly, jobs were not lost.\
What bankruptcy may actually do is either prevent their creation in the first place or supplant otherwise certain survival with upfront investment choices that make premature liquidation not just highly likely in insolvency but now virtually guaranteed should the firm remain solvent. Profits are not maximised, jobs are not saved. About the only thing bankruptcy positively affects is creditors' long-term interests.\
An obvious antidote to bankruptcy's detrimental impact on lending and investment decisions is to eliminate it. Somewhat counterintuitively, so-called "debtor-friendly" legislation may be an effective means of doing this. I show that as long as bankruptcy's rules do not explicitly prioritise equity over debt or negatively affect future earnings, they neither constrict lending nor distort investment decisions.\
Thus, two or three month "automatic stays" which prevent debt holders from confiscating assets, granting equity first right to proposal a restructuring plan and even issuing new senior debt are probably harmless. In fact, when these rules reduce the cost of reorganisation, they are actually beneficial. Several debtor-friendly regulations such as keeping firm owners at the helm may discourage excessive risk-taking[#Gertner1991,Eberhart1993] and under-investing[#Gertner1991] while encourage prompt creditor notification of financial distress[#Povel1999]. Some "creditor-friendly" rules, on the other hand, are probably large contributors to high reorganisation costs, e.g. hiring administrators paid out of insolvent firms' earnings to manage the firm or just oversee creditors' financial reimbursement.\
\
What are pernicious are rules which cost money. Some of these are unavoidable---legal fees may \
do not  are not harmful.\
Contrary to[#Bebchuk2002], I show absolute priority deviations that constrict lending and distort investment decisions are linked only to bankruptcy's cost; they are rule-independent---as long as those rules neither *explicitly* prioritise equity over debt nor negatively affect future earnings.\
Thus, \
 lending and decisions are independent of \
In the absence of high reorganisation costs, absolute priority deviations still arise but they are not pernicious. Write-downs actually reflect creditors' desire to avoid liquidation---a state in which they do not lose money. A fraction of the time some firms still go bankrupt, but these are also the firms judges are most likely to liquidate, anyway. All other firms in all other instances continue or liquidate when they should.\
Several reorganisation-related costs---from declining sales due to the stigma of a public court case to \
Unfortunately, policy makers likely have little control over many of reorganisations' costs.  \
\
This suggests that the structure of bankruptcy's rules is not the problem---at least not usually. It has been frequently argued that automatic stays, \
\
debt contracts exist which ensure everyone gets credit for the optimal amount of investment.\
\
In most instances, creditor-friendliness is irrelevant\
They merely reflect creditors' indifference between \
\
Absolute priority violations do no arise from the structure of bankruptcy's rules---at least not most of them. In the absence of high reorganisation costs, \
Others have argued the negative ex ante effects that bankruptcy---and deviations from absolute priority, more specifically---have had on\
\
 since bankruptcy creates a profitable niche for lenders where there otherwise wouldn't be one\
as long as assets come in a sufficient number of varieties (and price tags)\
also makes it more likely the firm's owners will voluntarily liquidate the project themselves.As long as assets come in sufficient varieties (and price tags)---e.g., John Deere tractors with optional add-ons such as air-conditioning, blue-tooth and surround-sound speakers---\
say an air-conditioned, blue-tooth enabled tractor\
A third type of firm gets credit only by inducing \
Some are credit rationed, others over-invest in physical assets and all pay more for credit.\
When lending to these firms is unprofitable, they either don't get credit or purchase assets with with greater capabilities (and a higher price tag) than what is actually needed. \
\
But since workouts demand debt forgiveness in proportion to the cost of that regime, little of these gains accrue to creditors. Lending is risker and sometimes unprofitable.\
\
Allow firm management to stay in\
Potential borrowers lose. Some are credit rationed, others over-invest in physical assets and all pay more for credit.\
Because they have the most leverage to \
\
\
\
\
The firms which suffer the most are those with high expected earnings relative to their upfront investment costs because they have the most leverage to threaten bankruptcy and thereby extract deviations in a workout. Unfortunately, this frequently makes lending to them unprofitable. These projects are either credit rationed or their entrepreneurs respond by making sub optimally safe investment decisions to reduce their ex post leverage in a workout.\
Bankruptcy was conceived to prevent precisely these firms from breaking up---usually to save jobs. Instead, it either prevents their creation int he first play or breaks them up anyway. Because these firms never go bankrupt when insolvent and always continue, bankruptcy provides them no ex post benefit, only pain.\
\
Bankruptcy benefits insolvent firms. But it seems improbable their numbers overpower their pre-solvent selves, solvent peers and credit-rationed brethern---all of whom lose out (or at least have nothing to gain) from bankruptcy. Then why does the institution exist in the first place? It clearly benefits lawyers, who are generally the beneficiary of large legal fees in bankruptcy and workouts and are the profession typically assigned adminstrator or trustee roles in reorganisation and liquidation. Another hidden beneficiary, however, are creditors. When reorganisation is very expensive, exorbitant interest rates are perfectly reasonable---and also highly profitable. As lenders perpetuate, \
these firms always get credit even when bankruptcy induces rampant absolute priority violations and their moral hazard risk is high. Indeed, despite a perfectly competitive credit market lending to some of these firms may actually be profitable. Higher interest rates \
with particularly thin investment to earnings ratios,\
When the investment to earnings ratio is particularly thin, creditors recoup costs only with exorbitantly high interest rates which guarantee liquidation.\
when the risk of bankruptcy is especially high, creditors only recoup earnings with exhorbitantly high interest rates which, somewhat counterintuitively, \
Destroy creditor returns in a workout and sometimes even their incentive to destroy total returns in bankruptcy\
The firms which suffer the least are, ironically, those which should be liquidated when solvent. In fact, thanks to a wider array of contracting options, these firms always get credit even when bankruptcy induces rampant absolute priority violations and their moral hazard risk is high.\
\
No repercussions in the lending market.\
evertheless, violations to absolute priority during renegotiations cause expensive debt and credit rationing and induce both premature and delayed liquidation.\
Insolvent firms which ought to continue do. But although settlements avoid wasteful reliance on an ineffective bankruptcy regime, they encourage profligate deviations to absolute priority rules from which potential borrowers suffer: some are credit-rationed, others over-invest in physical assets and all pay more for credit.\
This paper acknowledges the cost of reorganisation as a deadweight loss separate and larger than that of liquidation. I find they contribute a great deal to expensive debt, inefficient continuation, premature liquidation and credit rationing.\
I analyse violations to absolute priority in a world where judges determine outcomes in bankruptcy and reorganisation is not free. \
I find out-of-court settlements dominate and formal procedures rarely used. Regardless, insolvent borrowers extract concessions from creditors even in jurisdictions with high-quality judiciaries and few explicit violations to absolute priority.\
I analyse lending  \
I find reorganisation's cost contributes almost exclusively to inefficient continuation and liquidation, expensive debt and credit-rationing. Thanks to limited liability, creditors are disproportionately responsible for bankruptcy's impact on future earnings---from paying third-parties to oversee restructuring plans to declining sales or lost suppliers caused by the stigma of a public court case. Insolvent borrowers exploit this imbalance by demanding excessive debt write-downs in obvious violation to absolute priority.\
 This supplements the view that inefficiencies persist even when settlements are reached[#Gertner1991], but contradicts other work suggesting works, when possible, are always beneficial[#Bulow1978,White1980,White1983]].\
A substantial portion of bankruptcy research has assumed \
\
While settlements undoubtably reduce wasteful reliance on an inefficient bankruptcy regime, little of these gains accrue to creditors and so have limited impact on their earnings. On their own, howe\
\
In contrast to [#Longhofer1997,Bebchuk2002] I find violations to absolute priority, on their own, are largely innocuous. Firms which ought to continue, do---deviations from absolute priority reflect insolvent firms' reduced ability to pay back their loans given low initial earnings. Those which should liquidate generally do so voluntarily---although limited liability induces a few to declare bankruptcy, and a fraction of those will inevitably inefficiently continue instead. Nevertheless, the risk is small and probably liquidated in bankruptcy, anyway.\
 Its corroding effect lingers even though out-of-court settlements dominate and bankruptcy is hardly used because firm owners' exploit these\
Although out-of-court settlements dominate and bankruptcy is hardly used, its mere presence permits equity\
The corroding effect of costly reorganisation lingers even when out-of-court settlements dominate and bankruptcy is hardly used. While settlements undoubtably reduce wasteful reliance on an inefficient bankruptcy regime,\
Debt is paid before equity when reorganising a failed business. Known as "absolute priority", this rule exists in U.S., U.K., even French bankruptcy codes.\
Violations to absolute priority are routine and even occur with creditors' explicit consent outside of official bankruptcy. In a study of 30 insolvent companies in the U.S., only nine respected absolute priority---and eight were cases in which equity received nothing only because creditors received next to nothing[#LoPucki1990]. In two similar studies, creditors accepted deviations to their absolute priority in 80 percent of Chapter 11 cases[#Franks1989,Weiss1990].\
Nor are absolute priority deviations small. In[#LoPucki1990;], creditors conceded 13 percent of their earnings to equity holders. According to[#Eberhart1990;] payments to borrowers made up about eight percent of the value awarded all claimants. \
Why would lenders subsidise insolvent borrowers when they aren't legally required to? Modelling a generalised dual-chapter bankruptcy regime I analyse the source of these deviations and investigate their consequences on lending and investment decisions.\
\
Some firms which are most efficiently liquidated will always resort to bankruptcy\
 accurately reflect a firms reduced earnings potential given low initial earnings.\
Consistent with others before me, I find violations to absolute priority are at best innocuous, at worst harmful to lending conditions. Their presence induces inefficiently risky investment decisions ex post, inefficiently safe investment decisions ex ante and credit rationing.\
The firms which suffer the most are those with high expected earnings relative to their upfront investment costs because they have the most leverage to threaten bankruptcy and thereby extract deviations in a workout. Unfortunately, this frequently makes lending to them unprofitable. These projects are either credit rationed or their entrepreneurs respond by making sub optimally safe investment decisions to reduce their ex post leverage in a workout.\
Bankruptcy was conceived to prevent precisely these firms from breaking up---usually to save jobs. Instead, it either prevents their creation int he first play or breaks them up anyway. Because these firms never go bankrupt when insolvent and always continue, bankruptcy provides them no ex post benefit, only pain.\
The firms which suffer the least are, ironically, those which should be liquidated when solvent. In fact, thanks to a wider array of contracting options, these firms always get credit even when bankruptcy induces rampant absolute priority violations and their moral hazard risk is high.\
But whereas other studies have simply taken absolute priority deviations as "given", my model evaluates their source. Contrary to others, I find there are two types of deviations. One is used to "speed things along' and is harmless. Regardless of the exact provisions, any dual chapter code will entail these deviations. They only occur in workouts and do not prevent lending ex ante. Such provisions include automatic stays, the ability to obtain new financing, allowing the borrower first stab at proposing a restructuring plan or permitting the borrower a font in its adoption. These rules were concocted to help insolvent firms continue if they are supposed to continue. Since precisely these firms always enter a workout if bankrupt, their presence isn't helping, but it's also not harmful.\
The second type of deviation is more sinister. These deviations occur because either certain provisions or the entire procedure itself reduce firm value. Even when these costs are ostensibly supposed to be paid by the borrower, limited liability means they still come out of estate value and have a disproportionate effect on creditor returns.\
Highly risky firms use a lot of venture capital. Few use debt financing exclusively. It is often argued that this is a consequence of bankruptcy, and the ability of insolvent borrowers to extract deviations from absolute priority more generally, which make lending to such projects unprofitable.}