{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf120
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Bankrupt firms have two alternatives: restructure debt, reorganise the firm and continue operating or fire workers, liquidate assets and shut down. If the parties cannot agree, the courts are left to impose one outcome or the other. In this paper, I examine how costly and cumbersome reorganisation and judicial accuracy interact to affect lending and earnings.\
My starting point is that reorganisation is time-consuming, arduous and expensive. United Airlines spent $250 million on legal and professional services related to its reorganisation; World--Com topped out at $620 million [#Berk2009]. In New York, procedures last three years [#Weiss1990] and fees eat up 2--4 percent of firm value {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://87CB9347-D3BE-4B60-A79B-EFFFB6D5F7A0"}}{\fldrslt [#LoPucki2004,Warner1977,Weiss1990].}} Customers are reticent to buy goods[#{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C4925C1F-A144-4D38-8316-8E2E92072553"}}{\fldrslt Titman1984],}} suppliers hesitate to provide {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C7345778-DDE5-4938-8068-3C29BF4BAE87"}}{\fldrslt inventory}} and employees leave[#{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B200B080-100E-4B3E-A27D-714D62408813"}}{\fldrslt Berk2010].}}\
Reorganisation is also easily exploited by equity holders, managers and bankruptcy administrators. Financial distress encourages over-investment and excessive risk-taking[#Jensen1976,Bebchuk2002], misuse of company assets[e.g.,\\]\\[][#Johnson2000] and fire sales[see\\]\\[][#{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1104FF8A-DFB3-4806-B645-CD1258673752"}}{\fldrslt Shleifer1992].}} Hungarian bankruptcy administrators delay liquidation[#Franks2013]. Their counterparts in Russia embezzle cash[#Lambert-Mogiliansky2007].\
This paper acknowledges the cost of reorganisation as a deadweight loss separate and larger than that of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AC81672D-8C13-4905-A88C-AA6242FBC357"}}{\fldrslt liquidation,}} thus distinguishing it from previous theoretical research which has argued its non-existence[#Haugen1978,Haugen1988], considered it only in the context of increasing liquidation risk[#Titman1984,Berk2010], or assumed it was at least partially captured by business owners[#Ayotte2007,Bolton1996].\
I find reorganisation's costs contribute a great deal to expensive debt and credit-rationing. Reducing it strengthens earnings and lending. This supports empirical work suggesting that lenders are less willing to make loans in countries with weak creditor protection. When they do, they charge higher interest rates, require shorter maturities and demand more collateral[#Qian2007]. Ironically, rescue attempts in these countries rarely manage to successfully rehabilitate firms[#Djankov2008].\
The corroding effect of costly reorganisation lingers even when out-of-court settlements dominate and bankruptcy is not used. While settlements undoubtably reduce wasteful reliance on an ineffective bankruptcy regime, when little of these gains accrue to creditors they have limited impact on lending. This supplements the view that inefficiencies persist even when settlements are reached[e.g.,\\]\\[][#Gertner1991], but contradicts other work suggesting workouts, when possible, are always beneficial[e.g.,\\]\\[][#Bulow1978,White1980,White1983].\
Both practitioners and academics are dissatisfied with current Wester procedures, which are thought either to cause the liquidation of healthy firms or to be inefficient and biased toward reorganisation under incumbent management. In this model, I show that it is all of these things.\
As long as bankruptcy doesn't cost anything, this system works fine. Even when bankruptcy isn't free, it functions optimally as long as parties incur separate costs and those costs won't come out of the value of the estate. But as soon as future earnings are potentially affected by bankruptcy's cost---the firm's legal representation must be paid out of \
If creditor's are responsible for costs incurred by the entrepreneur during bankruptcy\
first period returns are always high enough to cover those costs. But as soon as those costs come out of the value of the estate, the estate m rely on future earnings to cover them\
In my model, deviations from absolute priority occur not from the structure of its rules, per se, but by the cost of procedures themselves. If costs were borne equally by creditor and entrepreneur, then \
Deviations from absolute priority are not enough to induce credit-rationing.}