{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf120
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green128\blue64;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 In 1986 the U.K. introduced administration: bankruptcy procedures aimed at rehabilitating insolvent {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://582552AA-E390-47FA-9796-1AFB51FF4904"}}{\fldrslt debtors.}} Called reorganisation elsewhere and analogous to U.S. Chapter 11, administration answered political concern that too many financially distressed firms were unnecessarily liquidated---or left to fail---despite a reasonable chance of survival
\f1 \cf2 [#Cork1982]
\f0 \cf0 . The "rescue culture" it fostered was thought to maximise profits, prevent job loss and uphold creditors' long term interests.\
In a comprehensive debt financing model I show rescue culture neither maximises profits nor prevents job loss. Instead, it obstructs firm creation in the first place or supplants otherwise certain survival with upfront investment choices that make premature liquidation not just highly likely in financial distress but virtually guaranteed should the firm remain solvent. The only goal rescue culture does serve is creditors' long term interests---by introducing a profitable niche lending market in an otherwise zero-profit industry.\
My starting point is that administration is time-consuming, arduous and expensive. United Airlines spent $250 million on legal and professional services related to its reorganisation; WorldCom topped out at $620 million
\f1 \cf2 [#Berk2009]
\f0 \cf0 . In New York, procedures last three years
\f1 \cf2 [#Weiss1990]
\f0 \cf0  and fees eat up 2--4 percent of firm value
\f1 \cf2 [#LoPucki2004,Warner1977,Weiss1990]
\f0 \cf0 . Customers are reticent to buy goods
\f1 \cf2 [#Titman1984]
\f0 \cf0 , suppliers hesitate to provide inventory and employees leave
\f1 \cf2 [#Berk2010]
\f0 \cf0 . Hungarian trustees delay liquidation
\f1 \cf2 [#Franks2013]
\f0 \cf0 ; their counterparts in Russia embezzle cash
\f1 \cf2 [#Lambert-Mogiliansky2007]
\f0 \cf0 .\
These costs matter: they contribute to expensive debt, delayed liquidation, suboptimal investment and credit rationing. Limited liability makes creditors disproportionately responsible for reorganisation's impact on future earnings. Insolvent borrowers exploit the imbalance by demanding excessive debt write-downs in obvious violation to absolute priority. This cuts creditor earnings, discourages voluntary liquidation and sometimes renders lending {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://54CD82EF-8DF6-4FCA-AA1D-B6FB2B56221F"}}{\fldrslt unprofitable.}}\
Insolvent firms which ought to continue always do---in settlements known as {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4A76D42F-AD7F-496C-AB30-C6DFEE42E7EE"}}{\fldrslt workouts.}} Firms with high expected earnings relative to upfront investment needs have the most to gain from a workout. So do their creditors. Reorganisation is expensive and probable: not only will equity never willingly liquidate, but if put to a judge she will likely agree. Bankruptcy has real consequences and creditors a real desire to avoid it; they quickly acquiesce to intemperate write-{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C42125BD-7A04-4A2D-A72D-077007BCF2CB"}}{\fldrslt downs.}}\
Potential borrowers lose. Workouts avoid wasteful reliance on an ineffective bankruptcy regime but lender write-downs are still proportional to the cost of that regime. As is often the case, however, it is firms' pre-borrowing selves and solvent peers who really pay the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://89D7DCF0-BA00-45A4-8E5F-2FACE0D90028"}}{\fldrslt cost.}} For some, credit is merely more expensive. For others, it is rationed or obtained only by inducing premature {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7E1E5911-3074-48D4-9A14-09FB4D9A6248"}}{\fldrslt liquidation.}} Higher interest rates encourage more workouts so creditors do not lend money no matter how much borrowers are willing to pay. To surmount this, firms over-invest in physical or tradable intangible assets to increase  both judicial likelihood of liquidation and a desire to voluntarily do so themselves.\
Insolvent firms which ought to liquidate only sometimes do but nevertheless face fewer upfront repercussions in the lending {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5157ACD2-D601-40D5-861C-1D7011B9C01F"}}{\fldrslt market.}} Although they frequently continue when they shouldn't and intermittently even file for bankruptcy, their shorter expected lifespans mean equity usually forgo both to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FD745A6F-4277-4343-B5DF-A992B21CFA46"}}{\fldrslt liquidate.}} From the creditor's perspective, workouts (and bankruptcy) are risker; returns are lower. They clearly prefer lending to borrowers who want them less often.\
In fact---and despite a perfectly competitive credit market---lending to firms most prone to bankruptcy can actually be profitable. High interest rates encourage bankruptcy, sure, but when they are very high and reorganisation very costly it's no better than shutting down; entrepreneurs are indifferent so creditors liquidate\'85while pocketing all of the firm's initial earnings. If creditors only recuperate their original investment when liquidation is guaranteed,  an exorbitant rate achieves this and makes them money in the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://48642D58-872C-46F2-9861-F0A4C981F308"}}{\fldrslt process.}}\
If the market for equity financing were as competitive as traditional lending is theorised to be, credit constrained borrowers could turn to family and friends, initial public offerings or angel {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CB60BDC0-1CFE-4C08-97B3-20755D9CB12D"}}{\fldrslt investors.}} But not everyone is blessed with wealthy kin, issuing public stock is just not done by tiny enterprises and illiquid venture capital markets favour entrepreneurs with whom investors share social networks and other superficial similarities
\f1 \cf2 [#Hochberg2007,Bottazzi2011,{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B5EA0A64-503E-44B5-97FE-43A016348B19"}}{\fldrslt Verheul2001]
\f0 \cf0 .}}
\f0 \cf0  Thus, eliminating automatic stays---by permitting floating charge liens---is the most straightforward antidote to bankruptcy's unpleasant side {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B8D71F35-73FA-4705-BF8C-3F533A863E61"}}{\fldrslt effects.}} Despite claims by the
\f1 \cf2 [#Cork1982;]
\f0 \cf0 , lenders are not prone to asset grabbing and firms are not left to fail
\f1 \cf2 [#Franks2005a]
\f0 \cf0 . Distressed British companies secured by floating charges were less likely liquidated than their counterparts in countries more committed to their survival
\f1 \cf2 [#Davydenko2008]
\f0 \cf0 . Bankruptcies involving floating charges keep firms as going concerns far more frequently than reorganisation---and cost significantly less to implement
\f1 \cf2 [#Djankov2008]
\f0 \cf0 .\
Yet floating charges are no longer part of British bankruptcy law. The Insolvency Act 1986 weakened them; the Enterprise Act 2002 removed {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C78A3DD9-06CE-485D-AFEC-EB164C0E2A9D"}}{\fldrslt them.}} Rescue culture won. Paradoxically at the expense of its purported aim: "to recognise that the effects of insolvency are not limited to the private interests of the insolvent, his family, creditors or directors, shareholders and employees, but that other interests of society or other groups in society are vitally affected\'85and to ensure that these public interests are recognised and secured"
\f1 \cf2 [\\]\\[\'a7198(i)][#Cork1982]
\f0 \cf0 .\
}