{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf120
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red255\green128\blue0;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 In this section, I test the validity of 
\f1 \cf2 [](#prop5)
\f0 \cf0  and 
\f1 \cf2 [](#prop6)
\f0 \cf0 . To account for credit-rationing and control for firm-specific characteristics, I use data from the World Enterprise Surveys (WES). The WES are a series of company surveys conducted by the World Bank and European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. They cover business constraints in emerging and developing markets. The data start in 2005 and are generally repeated every three {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://44E708DE-F011-42CD-B11E-94583D674CAA"}}{\fldrslt years;}} in total, they contain 117,105 observations from 135 countries.\
One question asks the degree to which access to finance---including interest rates, fees and collateral---is an obstacle to business operations. Answers range from 0 (no obstacle) to 4 (very severe obstacle). I define 
\f1 \cf3 $\\text\{Obstacle\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  as a binary variable equal to 1 if the respose was moderate (2) or above---roughly 47 percent of firms.\
I control for age, size, sector, exporter and ownership to account for firm-specific characteristics. 
\f1 \cf3 $\\text\{Age\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  is the difference between the year firm 
\f1 \cf3 $i$
\f0 \cf0  was established and the year in which the survey took place. 
\f1 \cf3 $\\text\{Size\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  distinguishes between small (fewer than 20 employees), medium and large (more than 100 employees) companies. 
\f1 \cf3 $\\text\{Exporter\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  is a binary variable equal to 1 if the firm exports all or part of its output; 
\f1 \cf3 $\\text\{Foreign-owned\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  and 
\f1 \cf3 $\\text\{State-owned\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  equal 1 if the firm is partly or wholly foreign- or state-owned, respectively. $
\f1 \cf3 \\text\{Manufacturing\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  equals 1 if firm 
\f1 \cf3 $i$
\f0 \cf0  operates in the manufacturing industry.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0B221619-DD35-4F42-8099-51984277B64C"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 [](#FirmSpecifics)}} summarises firm-specific controls. Exporter status, foreign ownership and size are the same for firms reporting finance as an obstacle compared to those that don't. Although state-owned firms are less likely to find financing an obstacle, the difference is slight. Younger firms and those in manufacturing, however, report a tougher time accessing finance than their older, service-oriented peers. Firms which consider finance an obstacle are, on average, 22 years younger than those that don't; 52 percent of them operate in the manufacturing industry compared to only 44 percent of those which do not find finance to be an obstacle.\
In addition to firm-specific controls, I include several controls for a country's general lending environment and development; each are culled from the World Bank WDI database and summarised in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F92EEA5D-F828-44EA-B338-8831B087EE8F"}}{\fldrslt [](#LendingEnvironment).}}Inflation, domestic credit to the private sector and GDP and GNI per capita are originally sourced from national accounts and international financial statistics data compiled or estimated by the OECD and World Bank, International Monetary Fund. The percentage of firms using banks to finance investment is drawn from survey responses in the WES. Data are matched to the WES according to the exact country and closest year in which the survey took place.\
To measure 
\f1 \cf3 $p$
\f0 \cf0  and 
\f1 \cf3 $Y$
\f0 \cf0 , I use World Bank Doing Business data. Doing Business indicators cover the cost and complexity of administrative procedures and regulations imposed on firms. They are estimated based on responses to a set of standardised---yet mostly hypothetical---scenarios posed to local accountants, lawyers and other expert practitioners. \
For 
\f1 \cf3 $p$
\f0 \cf0  I construct an index of the depth, coverage and quality of financial information available on individuals and firms in a country. It is the product of the Doing Business\'92s *
\i Depth of credit information index
\i0 * (an index measuring the comprehensiveness of credit-related data in the economy) and *
\i Credit registry coverage
\i0 * (percentage of individuals and firms covered by a public data registry) or *
\i Credit bureau coverage
\i0 * (percentage of individuals and firms covered by a private data bureau), whichever is greater.\
The *
\i Depth of credit information index
\i0 * was substantially revised in 2015 but backward revised only until 2013. The old methodology scored countries based on six criteria; the new methodology appends two more features. To account for this difference, data prior to 2013 is normalised by six; data after that is normalised by eight.\
In a given year, roughly 60 percent of countries have the minimum value of 0. Argentina had the highest possible value of 1 in 2006 and 2010; Honduras and Uruguay in 2010. The mean value is 0.15 (standard error of 0.01), about 0.05 points lower than the average of all countries covered in the Doing Business (0.2, standard error 0.01).\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf3 $Y$
\f0 \cf0  is the Doing Business *
\i Cost of enforcing contracts
\i0 * {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://775B4E84-80EF-407D-BC77-35159415986E"}}{\fldrslt measure.}} It estimates the cost of resolving a commercial dispute as a percentage of the claim in question. It includes attorney and court fees and all costs associated with enforcing the final judicial decision. Values range between 0 and 1.63 (indicating enforcing a contract costs 63 percent more than the value of the claim). The latter distinction goes to East Timor in 2009; the former to Bhutan. The mean is 0.35 (standard error 0.01)---identical to the population mean (standard error 0.006).\
As shown in [](#prop4) from [][Rescue Culture] credit rationing---and presumably finance obstacles more generally---vanish in the presence of receivership procedures similar to those present in the U.K. prior to 2003 and especially 1986. Importantly, receivership procedures must allow the creditor full power to bypass bankruptcy entirely and determine for himself the insolvent firm's proper resolution.\
To determine whether this is the case, I again rely on Doing Business indicators. Appendix X details my methodology explicitly, but roughly corresponds to whether floating charge liens are legally permissible, have absolute priority in bankruptcy, are not subject to an automatic stay and may be enforced out-of-court.\
Fourteen countries employed a floating charge lien in at least one year; 132 did not. In the 187 countries in the Doing Business for which data are available, 15 used a floating charge. That is, the majority of countries with a well-functioning receivership regime are covered by the WES.}