{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green128\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 In this section, I illustrate that strategic default does not affect lending when reorganisation is costless. In a minority of cases, judicial error may lead to premature liquidation.\
Let 
\f1 \cf2 $Y=0$
\f0 \cf0 . Absconding with more than 
\f1 \cf2 $X_1$
\f0 \cf0  requires surreptitious liquidation that is a serious breech of contract and  probably constitutes fraud. I assume its punishment is enough to deter it entirely. Additionally, 
\f1 \cf2 $X_1<D$
\f0 \cf0  triggers insolvency and if the creditor desires, court supervision implied by bankruptcy. Thus, strategic default is possible only up to 
\f1 \cf2 $D\\le X_1${\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8C4119F1-345C-4EEE-A179-CA01370B0A7C"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf0 .}}
\f0 \cf0 \
Consider non-viable firms. Since 
\f1 \cf2 $Y=0$
\f0 \cf0 , 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol V_1^C<\\ol V_1^B$
\f0 \cf0 ; per 
\f1 \cf3 [](#prop1)
\f0 \cf0 , insolvency implies liquidation or bankruptcy. For all 
\f1 \cf2 $D\\le X_1$
\f0 \cf0 , however, 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol E_1^B<E_1^L$
\f0 \cf0 . The firm does not strategically default.\
Consider now viable firms. As discussed in 
\f1 \cf3 [][p1Insolvency]
\f0 \cf0 , for some 
\f1 \cf2 $X_1$
\f0 \cf0  entrepreneurs are better off in a workout than they would be continuing while solvent---creating motive for strategic default.  Nevertheless, creditors expect at least 
\f1 \cf2 $K_0$
\f0 \cf0  even in reorganisation when 
\f1 \cf2 $X_1$
\f0 \cf0  is naught. Since reorganisation is by definition court-supervised and the judiciary assumed ethical, worst-case-scenario creditors turn to it for future {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CC94C824-04D0-4D6C-8652-D7B419210AB5"}}{\fldrslt oversight.}} Regardless, viable firms always get credit. If bankruptcy guarantees reorganisation when creditors favour it or if entrepreneurs cannot steal time 2 earnings, firms efficiently continue. Otherwise, judicial error may cause prematurely liquidating a minority of them.}