{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1502
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green128\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The following section sketches model conclusions when the entrepreneur and creditor share bargaining power during debt renegotiations. Assume first bargaining power is allocated entirely to the entrepreneur. Creditors accept any debt contract that is no worse than their expected returns in formal bankruptcy; entrepreneurs therefore offer a revised debt contract 
\f1 \cf2 $\\wt D$
\f0 \cf0  that solves\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$!e[p1equation14]\\ol C_1^W=\\ol C_1^B.e!$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 Similarly ,when creditors have all the bargaining power, entrepreneurs accept any workout proposal that gives them at least as much as their expected earnings in formal bankruptcy. Now, 
\f1 \cf2 $\\wt D$
\f0 \cf0  is the solution to\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$!e[p1equation15]\\ol E_1^W=\\ol E_1^B.e!$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 When entrepreneurs and creditors share bargaining power, each extracts a proportion of the surplus from 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation14)
\f0 \cf0  and 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation15)
\f0 \cf0 , respectively. To illustrate the concept, I introduce a new variable, 
\f1 \cf2 $z$
\f0 \cf0 , where 
\f1 \cf2 $z$
\f0 \cf0  is a number between zero and 1. In this framework, the new debt contract, 
\f1 \cf2 $\\wt D$
\f0 \cf0 , solves\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf2 $$!e[p1equation16]z(\\ol E_1^W-\\ol E_1^B)=(1-z)(\\ol C_1^W-\\ol C_1^B).e!$$
\f0 \cf0 \
 
\f1 \cf2 $z=0$
\f0 \cf0  grants the entrepreneur all bargaining power; 
\f1 \cf2 $z=1$
\f0 \cf0  grants it to the creditor; 
\f1 \cf2 $z\\in(0,1)$
\f0 \cf0  permits sharing workout surplus. To simplify exposition, 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation17)
\f0 \cf0  expresses 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation16)
\f0 \cf0  in terms of creditor returns, only.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$!e[p1equation17]\\ol C_1^W=C_1^B+z(\\ol V_1^C-\\ol V_1^B).e!$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 If a settlement is reached, the creditor prefers liquidation to a workout if and only if 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_1^W\\le C_1^L$
\f0 \cf0 ; plugging in 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation17)
\f0 \cf0 , the condition is\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$!e[p1equation18]\\ol C_1^B+z(\\ol V_1^C-\\ol V_1^B)\\le C_1^L.e!$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 The entrepreneur prefers liquidation to a workout if and only if 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol E_1^W\\le E_1^L$
\f0 \cf0 , or equaivalently\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$!e[p1equation19]C_1^L\\le C_1^B+z(\\ol V_1^C-\\ol V_1^B)-(\\ol V_1^C-V_1^L).e!$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural
\cf2 $\\ol V_1^C\\le V_1^L$
\f0 \cf0  is a necessary condition for both 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation18)
\f0 \cf0  and 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation19)
\f0 \cf0  to hold simultaneously; thus, for no 
\f1 \cf2 $z\\in[0,1]$
\f0 \cf0  are viable firms ever inefficiently liquidated in a settlement. Since 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_1^W$
\f0 \cf0  is increasing in 
\f1 \cf2 $z$
\f0 \cf0 , creditor losses from default decline---as do credit rationing and the cost of debt.\
For non-viable firms, a necessary and sufficient condition for 
\f1 \cf2 $\\wt D$
\f0 \cf0  to exist is for returns in continuation to exceed creditors' expected returns in bankruptcy plus their bargaining surplus awarded during renegotiations:\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$!e[p1equation20]\\ol C_1^B+z(\\ol V_1^C-\\ol V_1^B)\\le \\ol V_1^C.e!$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0  Because 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_1^B$
\f0 \cf0  is increasing in 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0 , 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_1^B\\le\\ol V_1^B$
\f0 \cf0 . Thus a sufficient (but not *
\i necessary
\i0 *) condition for 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation20)
\f0 \cf0  to be satisfied is\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$!e[p1equation21]\\ol V_1^B\\le \\ol V_1^C,e!$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0  *
\i i.e.
\i0 *, the same condition from 
\f1 \cf3 [](#prop1)
\f0 \cf0 .\
Consider the set of firms that violate 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation21)
\f0 \cf0 . As 
\f1 \cf2 $z$
\f0 \cf0  increases, the left-hand side of 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation20)
\f0 \cf0  declines. Workouts more likely exist. Because time 0 claims by creditors that they will have no choice but to file for bankruptcy are less credible, entrepreneurs are less willing to accept a loan contract with an exhorbitant 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  per 
\f1 \cf3 [](#prop2)(ii)
\f0 \cf0 . The profitable nice lending market 
\f1 \cf3 [market](#cor1)
\f0 \cf0  shrinks. When creditors have all the bargaining power (
\f1 \cf2 $z=0$
\f0 \cf0 ), 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation20)
\f0 \cf0  collapses to 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_1^B\\le\\ol V_1^B$
\f0 \cf0 ---which is always satisfied. 
\f1 \cf3 [](#prop2)(i)
\f0 \cf0  applies to all firms; no firm goes bankrupt and there are no supranormal profits in lending.}