{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red255\green128\blue0;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf2 [](#p3table12)
\f1 \cf0  documents a rise in the readability gap as women publish more articles. 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3eqSUP5)
\f1 \cf0  is an author-level estimation of the impact publication counts have on men and women's readability; the positive differences observed in 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3table13)
\f1 \cf0  therefore point to individual-specific explanations driving this phenomenon.\
One such explanation is "learning-by-doing". If the payoff from lucid exposition is high, people will catch on---either by internalising explicit comments on text readability in referee reports from earlier papers or making the (un)conscious connection that review times are faster when text is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F5A40D53-ACA7-4B66-8BB9-76396D424C65"}}{\fldrslt clearer.}} Applying that payoff only to women yields a succinct explanation for the gap's observed growth.\
But there are two convincing alternatives---one a complement, the other a substitute to "learning-by-doing". I now investigate both and show that neither is likely.\
Consider first the substitute. As discussed in 
\f0 \cf2 [][p3authorlevel]
\f1 \cf0 , readability and female ratio may be nonlinearly related---specifically, evidence suggests the latter is increasing and convex in the former (see 
\f0 \cf2 [](#fn3)
\f1 \cf0  and the Online Appendix). Thus, if women are more likely to co-author with other women (or by themselves) when they already have several publications behind them, the observed readability increase would merely reflect that late-career concentration.\
This is not the case. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://EA738E65-1348-40E6-9DA3-4653ABFFC23A"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3table16)}}displays male and female marginal effects on the number of prior papers from a fixed effects regression on female ratio. As publication counts increase, genders diversify: men publish with more women and women publish with more men.\
The complementary explanation applies to the evolution of female writers as a group---perhaps the clearest women publish more often. 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3equation9)
\f1 \cf0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7D4D48FF-91C5-42B5-9109-B80E7F91FA98"}}{\fldrslt investigates:}}where 
\f0 \cf3 $\\Phi$
\f1 \cf0  is the standard normal cumulative distribution function, 
\f0 \cf3 $T_i\\ge x$
\f1 \cf0  equals one if author 
\f0 \cf3 $i$
\f1 \cf0 's total publication count 
\f0 \cf3 $T_i$
\f1 \cf0  is greater than or equal to the positive integer 
\f0 \cf3 $x$
\f1 \cf0  and subscript 1 denotes author 
\f0 \cf3 $i$
\f1 \cf0 's first paper. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4BB4E3F4-38FB-4313-8E33-31243B4C9F78"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3table14)}}displays 
\f0 \cf3 $\\Phi^\\prime\\cdot\\l(\\beta_2+\\beta_4\\r)$
\f1 \cf0 ---the marginal effect of female authors' first papers' readability scores on the probability of publishing multiple times.\
The readability of a woman's first paper does not predict how often she will publish. Regardless of the threshold chosen, it has no impact on her eventual productivity and is indistinguishable from zero in all estimates. Several alternative dependant variables, independent variables, functional forms and dataset restrictions were tried. None suggest initially good writers, male or female, publish more frequently than bad ones (see Online Appendix).}