{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Receivership-like legislation may succumb to lengthy appeals or other delay tactics that restrain creditor action in the event of default. If so, it differs little from traditional bankruptcy. Thus, a final prerequisite is that the procedures themselves not take too much time.\
Receivership permits prior contracting of control rights. By design, it should quickly transfer them in the event of default irrespective of the host country's level of development or institutional strength. When it doesn't, bankruptcy involves a significant period during which the firm continues operating under judicial supervision---*
\i i.e.
\i0 *, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://17ED1C31-953C-4F51-834A-FE49328B47E8"}}{\fldrslt reorganisation.}} Creditors take this into account when issuing and pricing loans.\
I define the threshold as two years or less based on Doing Business's "time required to recover debt" indicator. This indicator measures the number of years lenders need to recover their credit from a defaulting firm; it is based on responses to a hypothetical scenario involving a financially distressed hotel unable to make payments on a bank loan collateralised by its entire {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://938FB49E-5222-420D-84D5-A53BFD1CD757"}}{\fldrslt business.}}\
The nine countries that possess the legislative and time components of receivership are: Albania (2007, 2013), Barbados (2010), Belize (2010), Fiji (2009), Ghana (2013), Jamaica (2010), Montenegro (2013), Nigeria (2007, 2014) and St. Lucia (2010). Each country, the years in which it was surveyed and whether it employed receivership or not are listed in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://020ECB63-8720-43ED-A3F3-925EC3AE1FD2"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 [](#p2table5)}}.}