{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green128\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue255;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\csgenericrgb\c50196\c0\c100000;
\csgenericrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Whatever the interim outcome, entrepreneurs' returns are aggregate earnings, 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol V_0$
\f0 \cf0 , less the amount paid to creditors, 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0$
\f0 \cf0 , making their unconditional expected value\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$!e[p1equation2]\\ol E_0=\\ol V_0-\\ol C_0.e!$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 The optimal contract maximises 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol E_0$
\f0 \cf0 , subject to the constraint that creditors' anticipate at least the principal amount of their loan, *
\i i.e.
\i0 *, 
\f1 \cf2 $K_0\\le\\ol C_0$
\f0 \cf0 . Given 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol V_0$
\f0 \cf0  and 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0$
\f0 \cf0  are positive, it is obvious from 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation2)
\f0 \cf0  that 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol E_0$
\f0 \cf0  is increasing in the former and decreasing in the latter; it is less obvious, however, how each reacts to 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0 .\
Start with viable firms. Viable projects operate both periods whether solvent or not---expected aggregate earnings are constant, making 
\f1 \cf2 $\\p\\ol V_0/\\p D=0$
\f0 \cf0 . Solvent firms satisfy 
\f1 \cf2 $D\\le X_1$
\f0 \cf0  so in *
\i any
\i0 * outcome creditors receive 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0 , meaning 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_1^B=D$
\f0 \cf0 . Consequently, 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0=\\ol C_0^B$
\f0 \cf0 , where 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0^B$
\f0 \cf0  is the unconditional expected value of creditor returns in bankruptcy. Since 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0^B$
\f0 \cf0  is increasing in 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0 , 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol E_0$
\f0 \cf0  must be decreasing in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B76B7B21-D0EC-4F50-B57A-5D5A69BCCCC4"}}{\fldrslt it.}} Entrepreneurs optimally set 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  as low as possible: 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0=K_0$
\f0 \cf0 .\
For non-viable firms it is no longer true that 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol V_0$
\f0 \cf0  is unaffected by 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  or that 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0$
\f0 \cf0  is always increasing in it. As shown in the proof of 
\f1 \cf3 [](#lem3)
\f0 \cf0 , the change in 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0$
\f0 \cf0  with respect to 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  is\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$!e[p1equation3]\\frac\{\\p\\ol C_0\}\{\\p D\} = \\int_\{\\mc L\}\\!\\frac\{\\p C_1^L\}\{\\p D\}\\,\\dd\\hat\\Pi+\\int_\{\\mc R\}\\!\\frac\{\\p\\ol C_1^R\}\{\\p D\}\\dd\\hat\\Pi + \\frac\{\\p\\ol V_0\}\{\\p D\},e!$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0  where 
\f1 \cf2 $\\mc L$
\f0 \cf0  and 
\f1 \cf2 $\\mc R$
\f0 \cf0  are the set of outcomes in which creditors accept payoffs consistent with liquidation and reorganisation, respectively, and 
\f1 \cf2 $\\hat\\Pi$
\f0 \cf0  their joint cumulative distribution function.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf2 $\\p\\ol V_0/\\p D$
\f0 \cf0  is negative but 
\f1 \cf2 $\\p\\ol C_1^R/\\p D$
\f0 \cf0  and 
\f1 \cf2 $\\p C_1^L/\\p D$
\f0 \cf0  are positive so 
\f1 \cf2 $\\p\\ol C_0/\\p D$
\f0 \cf0  may be positive or negative. A larger 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  increases creditors' claims to eventual earnings. This direct effect is the sum of the first two terms in 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation3)
\f0 \cf0 . A higher 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0 , however, also makes workouts and bankruptcy more attractive, depressing 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol V_0$
\f0 \cf0  and thereby indirectly reducing 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0$
\f0 \cf0 : the third term of 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation3)
\f0 \cf0 .\
Combine 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation3)
\f0 \cf0  with the partial derivative of 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1equation2)
\f0 \cf0  with respect to 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0 , and 
\f1 \cf2 $\\p\\ol E_0/\\p D$
\f0 \cf0  is simply the negative direct effect 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  has on creditors' returns. Although 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  affects entrepreneurs' decisions at time 1, and that decision affects expected project value at time 0, its cost is borne only by lenders so entrepreneurs ignore it and opt for the smallest 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  they can; again, 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0=K_0$
\f0 \cf0  (
\f1 \cf3 [](#lem3)
\f0 \cf0 ).\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf4 LEMMA\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 The entrepreneur prefers the smallest 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  such that 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0=K_0$
\f0 \cf0 .\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr

\f1 \cf5 elem\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 The main feature of the optimal contract is that every entrepreneur wants the cheapest loan he can get his hands on. He may have no choice---for viable projects 
\f1 \cf2 $\\p\\ol C_0/\\p D$ is positive
\f0 \cf0  meaning at most one 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  exists such that 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0=K_0${\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B12ECE35-8630-4DE1-B7B4-695C07FAA835"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf0 .}}
\f0 \cf0  Possibilities are broader for non-viable projects. 
\f1 \cf2 $\\p\\ol C_0/\\p D$
\f0 \cf0  is neither definitively positive or negative; it isn't necessarily even monotone. Consequently, the 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  at which 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0=K_0$
\f0 \cf0  may be on the upward or downward slope of 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_0$
\f0 \cf0  or even occur at several places ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2AACD7CB-CD66-4189-871B-0BA7B2DDF5BD"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf3 [](#p1figure2)}}).}