{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset204 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green128\blue64;\red0\green0\blue128;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 In economics, theoretical and empirical research on discrimination tends to focus on stereotype formation and belief structures motivating discriminatory actions
\f1 \cf2 [
\f0 \cf0 *
\i e.g.
\i0 *,
\f1 \cf2 \\]\\[][#Becker1957,Phelps1972,Arrow1973,Coate1993,Bordalo2016]
\f0 \cf0 . This paper exclusively explores, in a non-laboratory environment, discrimination's impact on the behaviour and choices of people discriminated against.\
This perspective has two advantages. First, it offers an alternative framework for studying the phenomenon. Discrimination is typically identified from the actions
\f1 \cf2 [
\f0 \cf0 *
\i e.g.
\i0 *,
\f1 \cf2 \\]\\[][#Neumark1970,Bertrand2004]
\f0 \cf0  and/or learning processes
\f1 \cf2 [
\f0 \cf0 *
\i e.g.
\i0 *,
\f1 \cf2 \\]\\[][#Altonji2001,Fryer2013]
\f0 \cf0  of those who discriminate. Within a subjective expected utility framework, I show that authors' choices also reveal discrimination by editors and/or referees. Although context-specific, the model's basic logic---and its method of identifying discrimination---apply equally well to situations where people are repeatedly judged on and respond to feedback about some quantifiable component of their output.\
Second, analysing discrimination from the perspective of people discriminated against forces us to think more deeply about its impact on, *
\i inter alia
\i0 *, occupational choice, worker motivation, human capital investment and, especially, productivity measurement. This paper joins a small, emerging literature examining these effects
\f1 \cf2 [
\f0 \cf0 *
\i e.g.
\i0 *,
\f1 \cf2 \\]\\[]{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://718396B0-ED81-4C60-B3B2-EDAFB1FC7956"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 [#Parsons2011,Craig2017,Glover2017,Lavy2015]
\f0 \cf0 .}}
\f0 \cf0 \
Higher standards cause collateral damage to women's productivity. Unequal time spent making revisions leads to unequal time conducting new research; as a result, women write fewer {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B5166337-EA81-4976-B026-CB95D82C9434"}}{\fldrslt papers.}} Fewer papers justifies lower promotion {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://33384B65-DAB4-4DDE-B829-0AE89337E98A"}}{\fldrslt rates.}} If women seek fairer employment elsewhere---or quit the labour force entirely---it feeds a "Leaky Pipeline".\
Moreover, I also find evidence that female authors internalise tougher standards with strategies that disguise the underlying discrimination as voluntary choice. Women increasingly submit better written papers *
\i ex ante
\i0 * to offset biased evaluation *
\i ex post
\i0 *, meaning the readability gap between senior economists largely forms prior to---therefore appearing independent of---peer review. This pattern of behaviour obscures the line between personal preferences and external constraints and hints that academia overlooks other biases within its ranks.\
Although analysed in a specific context---academia---higher standards impose a quantity vs. quality tradeoff that characterises many instances of female output. According to raw numerical counts, women produce less than men. Female reporters write fewer front-page bylines
\f1 \cf2 [#Klos2014]
\f0 \cf0 ; female real estate agents list fewer homes
\f1 \cf2 [#Seagraves2013]
\f0 \cf0 ; female physicians see fewer patients{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://33618D2B-D387-41A2-A322-3BD0F998A7FB"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 [#Bloor2008]}} and submit fewer grant proposals
\f1 \cf2 [#Gordon2009]
\f0 \cf0 ; female pharmacists and lawyers work and bill fewer hours, respectively
\f1 \cf2 [#Azmat2017,Goldin2016]
\f0 \cf0 .\
When ranked by narrowly defined outcome measures, however, women often outperform. Female students earn better grades
\f1 \cf2 [#Voyer2014]
\f0 \cf0 ; female auditors are more accurate and efficient
\f1 \cf2 [#Chung2001,ODonnell2001,Ittonen2013,Niskanen2011]
\f0 \cf0 ; congresswomen secure more federal funding for their districts, sponsor more legislation and score higher on a composite measure of legislative effectiveness
\f1 \cf2 [#Anzia2011,Volden2013]
\f0 \cf0 ; houses listed by female real estate agents sell for higher prices{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://EEDAE1E2-CBC9-4D68-B249-BD14785ABF28"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 [#Seagraves2013,Salter2012];}} patients treated by female physicians are less likely to die or be readmitted to hospital
\f1 \cf2 [#Tsugawa2016]
\f0 \cf0 ; female pilots are involved in fewer fatal accidents{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D9F8B290-BDE5-4C31-83F5-033CC20EAFA8"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 [#Vail1986,Bazargan2011]
\f0 \cf0 ;}} female economists write more clearly.\
Additionally, if---like senior female economists---women internalise higher standards in somewhat roundabout ways, they could contribute to other labour market phenomena: sectoral and occupational concentration
\f1 \cf2 [#Blau2016,Cortes2016,Pertold-Gebicka2016]
\f0 \cf0 ; women's tendency to under negotiate pay{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D162601F-085F-4E92-AAA6-16E3ACAE508D"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 [#Babcock2003]}} and apply only to jobs they feel fully qualified for
\f1 \cf2 [#Mohr2014]
\f0 \cf0 . They may likewise reinforce work habits---*
\i e.g.
\i0 *, conscientiousness, tenacity and diligence---that correlate with quality and connote "femininity": female physicians consult longer with patients
\f1 \cf2 [#Roter2004]
\f0 \cf0 ; female politicians fundraise more intensely{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C875729D-2E3C-42DB-B658-772568AC0F33"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 [#Jenkins2007]
\f0 \cf0 ;}} female faculty commit fewer instances of academic misconduct
\f1 \cf2 [#Fang2013]
\f0 \cf0 ; female lawyers make fewer ethical violations
\f1 \cf2 [#Hatamyar2004]
\f0 \cf0 ; female pharmacists are less likely to face performance-related disciplinary action{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B9DE4DB0-7A4A-4EA9-AAA4-D3A762F49123"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 [#Schafheutle2011]
\f0 \cf0 .}}\
Higher standards therefore offer another perspective to the gender gap in labour market outcomes. Traditional hypotheses focus on obvious discrimination
\f1 \cf2 [#Goldin2000]
\f0 \cf0 , motherhood
\f1 \cf2 [#Bertrand2010]
\f0 \cf0  and differences in behaviour
\f1 \cf2 [
\f0 \cf0 *
\i e.g.
\i0 *,
\f1 \cf2 \\]\\[][#Niederle2010]
\f0 \cf0 . Contemporary theories stress inflexible working conditions
\f1 \cf2 [#Goldin2014,Goldin2016]
\f0 \cf0 , preferences
\f1 \cf2 [
\f0 \cf0 for a review, see, *
\i e.g.
\i0 *,
\f1 \cf2 \\]\\[][#Blau2016]
\f0 \cf0  and policy design[
\f1 \cf2 #Antecol2016]
\f0 \cf0 . Still other research---which this paper joins---target more subtle forms of discrimination
\f1 \cf2 [
\f0 \cf0 *
\i e.g.
\i0 *,
\f1 \cf2 \\]\\[][#Sarsons2017,Wu2017]
\f0 \cf0 . The gap probably emerges from all of these factors---and possibly many that are not yet identified. Equality means levelling the playing field for every one.\
Furthermore, my results advocate using caution when employing performance indicators in equations relating earnings (or other labour market outcomes) to gender. Higher standards raise quality at the expense of quantity. Performance indicators that weight the latter's fall more heavily than the former's rise will appear artificially low. If used to interpret gender wage gaps, they will undervalue women's work and confound estimates of labour market discrimination. A similar argument was recently made in a study of racial preferences in Major League Baseball.
\f1 \cf2 [#Parsons2011;]
\f0 \cf0  find that race affects umpire calls, umpire calls influence players' behaviour and players' behaviour impacts performance metrics. As a result, common baseball statistics underestimate the talent of disadvantaged (usually minority) pitchers and overestimate the talent of advantaged (usually white) pitchers. An important contribution of my paper is to confirm this general point both in the context of gender discrimination and within a highly educated, professional working {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1BAE370D-65E7-4198-8A3A-8DA816B5A8B4"}}{\fldrslt environment.}}\
This paper makes two final contributions. First, it adds to extensive (ongoing) research into peer review. Although mine, to the best of my knowledge, is the first to suggest and document evidence of gender bias in the peer review process (as opposed to its outcome), it joins contemporary or parallel research studying patterns in the editorial process
\f1 \cf2 [#Ellison2002a,Card2013,Clain2017]
\f0 \cf0  and bias in editorial decisions
\f1 \cf2 [#Abrevaya2012,Card2017,Bransch2017]
\f0 \cf0 .\
Second, my findings emphasise the importance of transparency and monitoring. The least intrusive antidote to implicit bias is simple awareness and constant supervision. Unlike referee reports, journal acceptance rates are easy to measure and frequently audited; both factors foster accountability and encourage neutrality
\f1 \cf2 [#Foschi1996]
\f0 \cf0 . Monitoring referee reports is difficult, but it isn\'92t impossible---especially if peer review were open. As discussed in 
\f1 \cf3 [][Discussion]
\f0 \cf0 , several science and medical journals not only reveal referees' identities, they also post reports online. Quality does not decline (it may actually increase), referees still referee (even those who initially refuse) and, given what's at stake, an extra 25--50 minutes spent reviewing seems tolerable
\f1 \cf2 [#vanRooyen1999,vanRooyen2010,Walsh2000]
\f0 \cf0 .\
The remainder of the paper proceeds in the following order. 
\f1 \cf3 [][Data]
\f0 \cf0  describes the data and readability measures. Analyses and results are presented in 
\f1 \cf3 [][Results]
\f0 \cf0 . They are succeeded by a detailed 
\f1 \cf3 [
\f0 \cf0 discussion
\f1 \cf3 ][Discussion]
\f0 \cf0  and 
\f1 \cf3 [
\f0 \cf0 conclusions
\f1 \cf3 ][Conclusion]
\f0 \cf0 .}