{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;\csgenericrgb\c50196\c0\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Machines are generally available in several models, produced by more than one company and sold at various prices. Daily newspapers with circulation between 150,000--200,000 spend anywhere from $4--25 million on a press: cost depends on manufacturer reputation, post-purchase service quality, colour capacity and several additional features that reduce wastage, increase automation and speed up printing. Farm equipment is available in an even more dramatic range. John Deere's 2015 catalogue advertises 20+ tractors, priced $35,000--160,000. Models are differentiated by horsepower, warranty and special add-ons such as air conditioning, instrument panels, automatic transmission, bluetooth and surround sound speakers.\
Differentiated products cater to diverse clientele. Larger newspapers need faster presses because they print more copies; farming in extreme heat makes air conditioned tractor cabs (almost) a necessity. It is possible, however, that a spectrum of products sold at various prices also relieves credit rationing caused by bankruptcy.\
Assume the machine comes in a variety of models each of which is equally productive when employed by a specific project---utility tractors pick up just as many bales of hay whether equipped with subwoofers or not, and faster presses have little bottom-line impact when used by smaller newspapers. The price of a particular model is 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ul K_0\\le K_0$
\f0 \cf0 , where 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ul K_0$
\f0 \cf0  corresponds to the cheapest, or "base", model.\
Every model retains its full value until time 1. After that, technological change causes the factors which differentiate models of the same machine to depreciate faster than the machine {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://722077A6-448E-499A-84E4-76300A1B1D26"}}{\fldrslt itself.}} Their value at time 2 is zero; every machine is worth 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ul K_2$
\f0 \cf0  where 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ul K_2$
\f0 \cf0  is the time 2 resale value of the base model.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf3 PROPOSITION\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 When the product market for machines is sufficiently differentiated, no one is credit rationed. \
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr

\f1 \cf4 eprop\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 From 
\f1 \cf5 [](#prop3)
\f0 \cf0 , every project is funded. A sufficiently differentiated product market ensures a model exists that costs just enough to satisfy 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol V_1^C<\\ol V_1^B$
\f0 \cf0 . Per 
\f1 \cf5 [](#prop2)(ii)
\f0 \cf0 , the entrepreneur who purchases this model guarantees his project is liquidated at time 1. Loaning him money is riskless, so he always gets credit.\
Whether the entrepreneur actually buys an expensive model is a different question. Viable firms able to get credit for 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ul K_0$
\f0 \cf0  choose the base model. Every other firm in every other circumstance, however, buys an expensive machine, *
\i i.e.
\i0 *, one that costs\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$\\ol K_0=\\max\\l\\\{\\ul K_0,(1-Y)(X_2^H+\\ul K_2)\\r\\\},$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0  where 
\f1 \cf2 $X_2^H$
\f0 \cf0  is the upper limit of 
\f1 \cf2 $X_2$
\f0 \cf0  ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://56D0BA17-3D58-4CBD-81D7-039C28DB66DA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf5 [](#cor2)
\f0 \cf0 ).}}\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf3 COROLLARY\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 Viable firms choose 
\f1 \cf2 $K_0=\\ul K_0$
\f0 \cf0  at 
\f1 \cf2 $K_0\\le D$
\f0 \cf0  if creditors are willing to lend; all other firms choose 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol K_0$
\f0 \cf0  at 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol K_0=D$
\f0 \cf0 .\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr

\f1 \cf4 ecor
\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural
\cf0 Any credit rationed project viable at 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ul K_0$
\f0 \cf0  won't get credit at any other 
\f1 \cf2 $K_0$
\f0 \cf0  that leaves 
\f1 \cf5 [](#p1equation1)
\f0 \cf0  intact: 
\f1 \cf5 [](#p1equation4)
\f0 \cf0  is decreasing in 
\f1 \cf2 $K_0$
\f0 \cf0  making loans harder to get as the machine's price rises. Since 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ul K_0$
\f0 \cf0  was already the cheapest model, an entrepreneur's only option is to verifiably grant creditors more bargaining power during insolvency---by buying a machine expensive enough to reverse 
\f1 \cf5 [](#p1equation1)
\f0 \cf0 , converting a previously viable project into a newly non-viable one.\
By "over-investing"---*
\i i.e.
\i0 *, purchasing a machine with greater capabilities (and a higher price tag) than what he actually needs---the entrepreneur fundamentally alters the relationship between his project's value in continuation and its assets' piecemeal resale value. Although his project now gets credit, he manages this only by shortening its lifespan.\
Every entrepreneur of a non-viable firm---whether non-viable at 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ul K_0$
\f0 \cf0  or because credit is only available if rendered non-viable---wants to subvert entirely his *
\i ex interim
\i0 * incentive to demand a workout. From 
\f1 \cf5 [](#prop1)
\f0 \cf0 , non-viable projects are sometimes operated a second period when time 1 earnings are low. But freedom at time 1 means a higher 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  at time 0. *
\i Ex ante
\i0 *, its entrepreneur still prefers 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  as small as possible (
\f1 \cf5 [](#lem3)
\f0 \cf0 ); by extension he must want liquidation as probable as possible. Purchasing the expensive machine at 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol K_0$
\f0 \cf0  guarantees it.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf2 $\\ol K_0$
\f0 \cf0  assures liquidation much like an exorbitant 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  would per 
\f1 \cf5 [](#prop2)(ii)
\f0 \cf0  but with one crucial difference: the entrepreneur retains control rights to 
\f1 \cf2 $X_1$
\f0 \cf0 . By setting 
\f1 \cf2 $D=\\ol K_0$
\f0 \cf0  the creditor recovers the loan principal in every state; the entrepreneur keeps all cash flows.\
Over-investment by firms not viable at 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ul K_0$
\f0 \cf0  contributes to a more socially desirable outcome. Entrepreneurs exploit the value of the machine at time 0 and its worth at time 2 to induce better behaviour at time 1: increasing 
\f1 \cf2 $K_0$
\f0 \cf0  reduces their desire to demand workouts or bankruptcy; by buying the model that costs 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol K_0$
\f0 \cf0  they eliminate it entirely.}