{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue64;\red255\green128\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;
}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Credit information's ultimate impact depends on firm viability, which is not identified. 
\f1 \cf2 [](#p2table7)
\f0 \cf0  suggests an overall negative effect, but it is small and insignificant. To provide more nuance, I use a mixed logit regression.\
Mixed logit models were developed to address unobserved heterogeneity in consumer choice experiments. They permit random taste variation in survey respondents presented with a series of alternatives over several choice occasions.\
Despite not corresponding exactly to surveys that usually exploit mixed logit models, my dataset does contain many similar features. That is, although the same firm is never repeatedly sampled, the same type of firm is. Additionally, a particular type of firm should not only be repeatedly sampled in one country, but across countries facing different levels of credit information and contract enforcement costs. \
To apply the model, I decompose the dataset into groups. Each group contains firms that live in a country with similar GDP per capita and bankruptcy legislation and share the same approximate age, industry, size and export, foreign- and state-ownership {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D1AE3C3B-9EEF-48C5-995C-DB78CC6E6CFD"}}{\fldrslt status.}} Credit information and contract enforcement cost were averaged over group members that considered financing an obstacle, and separately for those that did not. \
The result is 389 \'93individuals\'94 with a choice of two alternatives---is finance an obstacle or not? The differentiating factors are credit information and contract enforcement cost. As illustrated in 
\f1 \cf3 [#Train2009;]
\f0 \cf0 , by assuming the individual-specific random error component is distributed i.i.d. extreme value, 
\f1 \cf2 [](#p2equation6)
\f0 \cf0  represents the probability 
\f1 \cf4 $\\text\{obstacle\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  is 
\f1 \cf4 $k${\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://74122C9C-3DED-4DCB-807F-2A449DFBC4C6"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf0 :}}
\f0 \cf0 where 
\f1 \cf4 $k$
\f0 \cf0  is 0 or 1, 
\f1 \cf4 $\\vect B$
\f0 \cf0  is a 
\f1 \cf4 $2\\times1$
\f0 \cf0  vector of normally distributed coefficients, 
\f1 \cf4 $\\phi$
\f0 \cf0  their density and 
\f1 \cf4 $\\vect x_\{i_k\}$
\f0 \cf0  individual 
\f1 \cf4 $i$
\f0 \cf0 's 
\f1 \cf4 $2\\times1$
\f0 \cf0  vector of explanatory variables for choice 
\f1 \cf4 $k$
\f0 \cf0 . \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A0D4C037-A732-4B73-AB10-391A952CD552"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 [](#p2table8)}}presents the results. Columns (1) and (2) display means and standard deviations for 
\f1 \cf4 $\\vect B$
\f0 \cf0 . (3) shows results from a comparable logit {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://BC165D23-057B-41A5-BF8B-0326DB18CB3A"}}{\fldrslt regression.}} The gulf between coefficients in the mixed logit and standard logit and 
\f1 \cf2 [probit](#p2table7)
\f0 \cf0  models suggests considerable unobserved {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5E1FE0FE-5E3A-4FD2-92E3-835A0106F6D2"}}{\fldrslt heterogeneity.}}\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf4 $Y$
\f0 \cf0  is again positive and significant, indicating quick and efficient reorganisation reduces financing obstacles. In the first result set, the coefficient follows a normal distribution; in the second, it is held fixed. The mean is the same regardless of specification. The standard deviation in (1) is close to zero and not significant, implying a very consistent impact throughout the population.\
The coefficient on 
\f1 \cf4 $p$
\f0 \cf0  follows a normal distribution in both mixed logit regressions. Their means are about -28, meaning information considerably mitigates obstacles to finance for the average firm. Standard deviations are also roughly equivalent and significant. Their magnitude indicates substantial variation. Seventy percent of firms think credit information reduces obstacles to finance; for 30 percent, the opposite is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F698A3CE-EE89-4FB9-B55B-728EABB17A4B"}}{\fldrslt true.}}\
The ambiguous effect in 
\f1 \cf2 [](#p2table8)
\f0 \cf0  is due to unobserved heterogeneity. 
\f1 \cf2 [](#prop5)(ii)
\f0 \cf0  proposes one potential cause---firm viability in the context of court supervised reorganisation---but results in 
\f1 \cf2 [](#p2table8)
\f0 \cf0  cannot directly attribute it to any specific factor. In conjunction with 
\f1 \cf2 [](#p2table7)
\f0 \cf0 , however, they do suggest the positive relationship is specific to jurisdictions without receivership, as theorised in 
\f1 \cf2 [](#hypoth3)
\f0 \cf0 .}