{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1502
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green128\blue0;\red0\green128\blue64;\red128\green0\blue255;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;\csgenericrgb\c50196\c0\c100000;
\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Bankruptcy isn't the only option. Creditors and entrepreneurs can always deal with insolvency on their own. One scenario involves a mutual decision to wind-up business operations. In another, both parties agree to a workout.\
In a workout, the bankrupt debtor negotiates a revised debt contract with his creditors outside the judicial system. Workouts, when allowed, follow a similar script. In the U.S., managers propose a plan to restructure the debt; creditors then vote on it. If unanimously accepted, the plan is implemented without requiring court {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8645F815-5EC0-478C-A2A3-8DC16524E22A"}}{\fldrslt intervention.}} Time spent in bankruptcy is reduced or eliminated, making them cheaper and less stressful than formal reorganisation[#McConnell1991]. I assume they are costless.\
The debt renegotiation game is very simple; I assume the entrepreneur makes a take-it-or-leave-it offer to replace the original debt $D$ due at time 1 with a new one $\\wt D$ due at time 2. Gross earnings are identical to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://688F7DA0-2AA0-4EB8-947F-9A2968A843FA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 $V_2^C$
\f0 \cf0 .}}\
Consider now a mutual decision to liquidate the firm. In settlements, side-payments could be made by either party in order to induce the other to take a particular action. Although similar transfers are common in workout agreements, they are explicitly forbidden when an insolvent borrower is liquidated. Specifically, paying an insolvent firm's directors to voluntarily wind up is legally a "preference payment" in both the U.K.[\\]\\[\'a7239][#GreatBritain1986] and U.S.[\\]\\[\'a7101(31)][#UnitedStates2016]---*i.e.*, a payment that "has the effect of putting [its recipient] into a position which, in the event of the company going into insolvent liquidation, will be better than the position he would have been in if that thing had not been done"[\\]\\[\'a7239 (4)(b)][#GreatBritain1986].\
Workouts are analogous to formal reorganisation but without costly court oversight. As long as a certain number of creditors support the renegotiated debt contract, there are few restrictions to what borrowers and lenders agree to. Renegotiating in this context depends on which party possesses bargaining power\
orkouts are subject to few legal \
They are the outcome of a borrower-lender renegotiation of the original loan contract \
and enact a new one as long as a certain number of creditors agrees to the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7A1CD81C-12FC-496D-B56E-362043F54102"}}{\fldrslt proposal.}}\
Like continuation and reorganisation, projects in a workout operate another period; gross earnings are identical to 
\f1 \cf2 $V_2^C$
\f0 \cf0 . \
\
law and voidable in liquidation proceedings{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://71DEC912-C102-4DD7-A738-EB958C83FE75"}}{\fldrslt [\\]\\[\'a7239--241][#GreatBritain1986].}} [\\]\\[\'a7101(31)][#UnitedStates2016;] similarly invalidates preference payments to insidersU.S. Bankruptcy law similarly prohibits preferences and so-called "fraudulent" transfers, and the liquidation trustee \
Although prohibiting preference payments is a particular feature of U.K. bankruptcy law, "bribing" one side to liquidate is controversial almost everywhere. U.S. law does not expressly forbid them---but neither are they explicitly allowed, and clarifying their legality has been \
Elsewhere, the legality of equity carve outs in liquidation is less clear cut---although they are universally controversial. U.S. bankruptcy law does not expressly forbid them---but nor does it explicitly allow them, Figuring out whether they are or are not legal has been a large source of litigation. Even in the few instances such payments are allowed, they are nevertheless rarely made. For example, in the U.S. home mortgage market, insolvent homeowners\
In the U.S., the universal legality of equity carve-outs is less clear, and when they occur, they tend to generate excessive litigation. In one area, however, they are unambiguously legal---the home mortgage market. Insolvent homeowners are perfectly within their rights to demand payment to vacate their homes. Nevertheless, despite the existence of this right, it is seldom exercised.\
Theoretically there is a payment the entrepreneur would be willing to accept to agree to liquidate his firm; practically, however, the entrepreneur is prevented from accepting it.\
, the ultimate contract results in efficient investment. \
If production and trade can be indefinitely delayed while renegotiation is taking place, then contracts exist which can, in fact, lead to efficiency even when there are bilateral direct externalities. But while this may be *theoretically* possible, there are several provisions in bankruptcy law making this *practically* impossible.\
Consider first the voluntary agreement between creditor and debtor to wind up business operations. \
In U.K. corporate bankruptcy law prohibits so-called "preference payments" \
the principle of *pari passu*---creditors within the same class are treated equally---\
A fundamental principle of U.K. corporate bankruptcy law is the principle of *pari passu* distribution---all creditors within the statutory scheme should be treated equally in the distribution
\f1 \cf3 [\\]\\[\'a7107][#GreatBritain1986]
\f0 \cf0 . One way the law ensures the application of *pari passu* is by prohibiting so-called preference payments. In particular, payments made to a director (or anyone connected with him or the company) two years prior to the firm's insolvency can be voided in liquidation
\f1 \cf3 [\\]\\[\'a7239][#GreatBritain1986]
\f0 \cf0 . \
statues that prevent shareholders from receiving value from the firm until creditors have been repaid in full.\
Ideally, insolvent debts receive no value from their assets until creditors are repaid in full. \
When a debtor is insolvent and financial contracts are resolved, contracts are renegotiated and usually involve \
I make the crucial assumption that absolute priority deviations are not possible in compulsory liquidation. This assumption is restrictive, but not unrealistic. In fact, under the current U.K. bankruptcy regime, so-called "equity carve-outs" before winding up an insolvent firm would require creditors to forgive enough debt just prior to starting the liquidation process to render them solvent. Unfortunately, doing so violates the condition that firm directors act in the best interest of the creditors---meaning that once the liquidation is complete, creditors can personally sue directors to recover the value of the carve-outs.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf4 ASSUMPTION\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 Absolute priority deviations are only possible in a workout.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr

\f1 \cf5 eassump\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 The process and proceeds are identical to those in 
\f1 \cf6 [compulsory liquidation][bankruptcy]
\f0 \cf0 .\
Like continuation and reorganisation, projects in a workout operate another period; gross earnings are identical to 
\f1 \cf2 $V_2^C$
\f0 \cf0 . Now, however, the entrepreneur makes a take-it-or-leave-it offer to replace the original debt $D$ due at time 1 with a new one $\\wt D$ due at time 2.\
When negotiating, the entrepreneur's proposal is again take-it-or-leave-{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://78890EE7-2152-489D-BB5A-965A3C9CB78C"}}{\fldrslt it.}} He offers the smallest 
\f1 \cf2 $\\wt D$
\f0 \cf0  the creditor will accept: one which equates the latter's expected earnings in a workout, 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_1^W$
\f0 \cf0 , with those of his outside option---bankruptcy (
\f1 \cf6 [](#lem2)
\f0 \cf0 ).\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf4 LEMMA\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 In a workout, the entrepreneur offers the creditor the smallest 
\f1 \cf2 $\\wt D$
\f0 \cf0  such that 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_1^B=\\ol C_1^W$
\f0 \cf0 . Such a 
\f1 \cf2 $\\wt D$
\f0 \cf0  exists if and only if 
\f1 \cf2 $\\,\\ol C_1^B\\le\\ol V_1^C$
\f0 \cf0 .\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr

\f1 \cf7 elem\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 Assuming his proposal is accepted, the entrepreneur's expected earnings from a workout are\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$\\ol E_1^W=\\ol V_1^C-\\ol C_1^B.$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0  Let 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol E_1^C$
\f0 \cf0  be the time 1 expected value of 
\f1 \cf2 $E_2^C$
\f0 \cf0 . Since 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol C_1^B$
\f0 \cf0  is only ever at most 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0 , 
\f1 \cf2 $\\ol E_1^C\\le\\ol  E_1^W$
\f0 \cf0  for values of 
\f1 \cf2 $X_1$
\f0 \cf0  within a sufficiently small neighbourhood of 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0 . The upshot? Entrepreneurs are better off in a workout than they would be if continuing while solvent---armed with the threat of bankruptcy, they demand revised terms of credit at lenders' {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://31B2B65F-B3D5-4A35-AA04-F5987B72B5D8"}}{\fldrslt expense.}}}