{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 I adapt the model in[#Bartos2016;] to a single-stage decision maker's choice about a submission. Before the game starts, I assume papers have undergone an initial screening by editors to rule out submissions that fail to satisfy the following condition:\
\
$$\\EE[q]=q_G+q_1+\\EE[q_2]>0,$$\
\
where $q$ is the unknown objective quality of the paper, and can be expressed as the sum of observable $q_G$ and $q_1$ and unobservable $q_2$. $q_G$ is the average quality of the author's gender group, $G$; $q_1$ was revealed during pre-screening and shows an initial indication of the degree to which the paper's quality deviates from the group average; $q_2$ is the unknown portion of the paper's quality.\
\
For the decision maker, the decision to reject is based on the inherent unknown payoff $\\pi$, which consists of two components,\
\
$$\\pi=q-d_G,$\
\
where $d_G$ is the referee's distaste toward the author's gender $G$. $d_G$ is private information to the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://82AF2351-774A-46E5-8AA1-6C41A53E00E3"}}{\fldrslt referee.}} The reservation payoff from rejecting the applicant is 0. \
\
Figure X illustrates the game in extensive form. Pre-screening reveals $q_G$ and $q_1$, both of which are then observed by the referee. Post pre-screening, the referee may either to accept the paper immediately or instead postpone the decision until he has fully reviewed the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://42D15BCB-F759-46B7-B37E-B4DA74616BF1"}}{\fldrslt document.}}\
\
In the latter case, the referee reads the paper in detail and writes a referee report. This stage also includes re-reviewing the paper in the event the referee requested clarifications of and/or changes to the paper. This process is assumed to be time-consuming for the referee, and this cost is captured by $c$. Once the process is complete, however, $q_2$ is revealed, thus the referee is rewarded by knowing $q$ precisely. At this stage, when all costs of information acquisition are sunk, the applicant is accepted if and only if {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://600C737D-1565-4B47-A8E5-0DA07D1E8ADB"}}{\fldrslt $q>d_G$.}}\
\
Define $q_1^\\star$ as the $q_1$ below which the paper is reviewed and above which it is accepted immediately. That is, $q_1^\\star$ is the $q_1$ that satisfies the following condition:\
\
$$c=-\\EE[\\min\\\{q_G+q_1^\\star+q_2,0\\\}].$$\
\
I now describe how the probability of spending longer in review---reflected by the fact that the paper is not immediately accepted---increases regardless of the specific form of discrimination that is present.\
\
Proposition 1. Lower $q_G$ and $\\sigma_2$ and higher $d_G$ are more heavily scrutinised in lemon-dropping markets.\
\
A distaste toward a certain group is captured by the parameter {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6190DD0B-73B5-4D31-96E0-7B2C02B5E37C"}}{\fldrslt $d_G$[#Becker1971].}} Here, a higher distaste implies more attention is paid to the applicant. Costly information serves to fast track certain expected high quality submissions into acceptance to potentially save on the cost of reviewing them.\
\
Next, I consider statistical discrimination[#Phelps1972,Arrow1973], which is driven by differences in beliefs about the applicant's quality. In the model, this channel is represented by a change in $q_G$. The implications of a reduction in $q_G$ are then the same for an increase in the distaste parameter $d_G$: more attention is paid to the applicant.\
\
Last, I consider the effects on attention of a greater difficulty to understand signals from a culturally dissimilar group. In a departure from[#Bartos2016;], I interpret this in that less information was revealed in the pre-screening phase, and so $\\sigma_2$ is higher. This results in a mean-preserving spread, and serves to increase the benefits of filtering out bad papers during review.}