{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf120
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue255;\red255\green128\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue64;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 As implied throughout this paper---and shown explicitly in the next---bankruptcy's fundamental problem is reorganisation's cost. In its absence, no firm is credit rationed and almost every firm liquidates and continues when it should.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf2 PROPOSITION\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 If $Y=0$, no firm is credit rationed.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr

\f1 \cf1 eprop\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 $Y=0$ is enough on its own to guarantee viable firms not only always \
High bankruptcy costs put creditors in a weak bargaining position during a workout; entrepreneurs suffer ex ante either by being credit rationed ([][creditrationing]) or shortening their projects' lifespans by over-investing ([][differentiatedproductmarkets]). Although entrepreneurs would like to promise ex ante not to exploit bankruptcy, they rationally take advantage of it ex {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://08B472CF-CE94-431C-A640-63284A68FF9B"}}{\fldrslt interim.}} Circumventing this incentive requires elevating the value of creditors' outside option---bankruptcy. Bankruptcy is an exogenously determined process over which entrepreneurs and creditors have little control and usually no alternative. Alleviating the distortions it causes means reducing its cost, possibly making judges less accurate ([][empirics]) or eliminating reorganisation entirely.\
Several common law countries---most notably the U.K.---include a form of bankruptcy which does just that: receivership. Receivership applies to a special class of creditor---one which holds a lien on more than just the firm's physical assets. These liens, called floating charges, may be narrowly defined or  co-exist with loans made on secured collateral, but in the broadest sense applies to a firm's entire business operations.\
In receivership, the creditor secured by floating charge collateral appoints an administrator on his behalf. The administrator has full control of the distressed firm and may operate the firm himself, sell to a third party (or back to the original management) or liquidate its assets piecemeal.\
Setting $q=0$ simulates receivership in the current model. From [](#lem1), disagreement between creditor and entrepreneur implies the creditor would liquidate; thus, $q=0$ ensures the courts support the creditor whenever that disagreement arises---effectively transferring him control rights and therefore simulating receivership.\
Contracts based on receivership replace a payment with an outcome precisely when that payment is particularly risky. Safer outside options are more valuable forcing entrepreneurs to shoulder greater financial responsibility in a workout, $C_1^B=C_1^L,$ and the creditor is always able to recover the principal amount of his loan. The creditor makes no losses; if the entrepreneur asks to borrow $K_0$ and repay exactly that one period later, the creditor accepts. Every project is funded and no one is credit-rationed [](#lem8).\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf2 LEMMA\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 In receivership the optimal debt contract is $D=\\ul K_0.$ There is no credit-rationing.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr

\f1 \cf1 elem\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 Nevertheless, receivership is not common and its ability to alleviate credit-rationing limited and often undermined by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C13077DE-CAAD-4873-8849-6856B9C65F31"}}{\fldrslt regulation.}} Reformed U.K. insolvency procedures took effect in 2003. The new U.K. law cuts back the rights of creditors secured by floating charge, including that to appoint an administrative receiver. The rational was that receivership the weak protection of the firm's operations and the strong rights allocated to creditors with a floating charge lien caused excessive liquidations. Nevertheless, firm survival and recovery rates in the U.K. compare well to the U.S. Chapter 11. Thus, the strong creditor orientation in formal bankruptcy does not appear to be detrimental tot he restructuring of distressed U.K. firms. Additionally, [][#Franks2005a;] examine 542 small-to-medium-sized financially distressed U.K. firms that are transferred to their bank's workout unit. They report that 60% of sample firms filing for the U.K. receivership code continue to operate as going concerns after bankruptcy. In a sample of U.K. firms filing for administrative receivership, [][#Kaiser1996;] finds that almost half are sold as going concerns. Similarly, [][#Davydenko2008] show that 43% of small U.K. firms that default on their debt are liquidated piecemeal.
\f2 \

\f0 In the absence of wasteful reorganisation, moral hazard from absolute priority violations disappears and [](#prop2) applies to all non-viable {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A701A90A-6C05-424E-92B1-BF3F9D1209C6"}}{\fldrslt firms.}} As long as reorganisation does not destroy value, non-viable firms cannot extract absolute priority violations because bankruptcy just isn't that bad ([](#cor1)).\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf2 COROLLARY\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 If $Y=0$, [](#prop2) applies to all non-viable firms.
\f1 \cf3 \
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr
\cf1 ecor
\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural
\cf0 [](#cor1) illustrates that the rules employed in bankruptcy regimes are not the fundamental cause of inefficient continuation. Regulations which grant borrowers first right to craft a restructuring plan or prevent creditors from repossessing their liens are frequently seen to "empower" debtors. Borrowers, it is assumed, exploit that power by extracting deviations from absolute priority. Per 
\f1 \cf4 [](#prop2)
\f0 \cf0 , when non-viable firms can extract deviations from absolute priority inefficient continuation does occur.\
More do go bankrupt but whereas all workouts imply continuation, fewer than half of bankruptcies do (
\f1 \cf3 $q<1/2$
\f0 \cf0 ). And 
\f1 \cf3 $E_1^B>E_1^L$
\f0 \cf0  is a much harder threshold to cross than 
\f1 \cf3 $E_1^W>E_1^L$
\f0 \cf0  ever was.\
Ideally, every firm gets credit. The fact that many don't is a direct result of the deadweight cost of reorganisation in the context of limited liability which allow insolvent entrepreneurs to extract excessive violations to absolute priority.\
But on their own, violations to absolute priority are not harmful. When reorganisation costs nothing, insolvent non-viable firms don't even ask for them: 
\f1 \cf3 $D=K_0$
\f0 \cf0  so entrepreneurs voluntarily choose to liquidate irrespective of time 1 earnings. And while viable firms still do, neither bankruptcy outcome is particularly bad; their demands aren't excessive enough to make lending unprofitable ([](#cor1)).\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf2 COROLLARY\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 If 
\f1 \cf3 $Y=0$
\f0 \cf0 , non-viable firms obtain credit at 
\f1 \cf3 $D=K_0$
\f0 \cf0 ; viable firms at 
\f1 \cf3 $D>K_0$
\f0 \cf0 . Neither is credit rationed.
\f1 \cf3 \
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr
\cf1 ecor\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 [](#cor1) suggests that as long as bankruptcy does not erode future earnings, its presence is innocuous. The problem is that almost everything about bankruptcy *does* impact those earnings.\
Bankruptcy is fully---and inefficient workouts partially---explained by the moral hazard of limited liability
\f1 \cf5 [#Jensen1976]
\f0 \cf0 . When entrepreneurs of non-viable firms earn nothing in liquidation, reorganisation and workouts have little chance of success. Nevertheless, their inherent uncertainty combined with no personal liability offer the possibility of positive returns.\
Higher reorganisation costs reduce limited liability's moral hazard but aggravate moral hazard from absolute priority violations. Workouts allow entrepreneurs to profit at creditors' expense. Bankruptcy does not---creditors may not expect 
\f1 \cf3 $D$
\f0 \cf0 , but they are still entitled to it, so every scenario in which entrepreneurs earn money mean creditors are repaid in full. Expensive reorganisation makes the latter relatively more attractive. Unfortunately, it compensates by making creditors swallow larger write-offs when workouts are available. The net effect reduces creditor {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9A3160B6-E352-4D00-9770-7267C83C81D3"}}{\fldrslt earnings.}}
\f2 \
}