{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf120
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green128\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue255;
\red0\green128\blue64;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 [](#prop1), [](#prop2) and [](#prop3) imply two fundamental problems caused by bankruptcy: (i) credit rationing and/or decisions that induce premature liquidation *
\i ex ante
\i0 *; and (ii) inefficient continuation *
\i ex interim
\i0 *. Problem 1 affects viable firms'; Problem 2 affects non-viable firms.\
Rescue culture emerged from fear of too much liquidation. Minimising Problem 1 means cutting reorganisation's {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A6091A67-AE8E-4E8B-84CD-4E03582A5B10"}}{\fldrslt cost.}} When 
\f1 \cf2 $Y=0$
\f0 \cf0 , all viable firms get credit. 
\f1 \cf2 $K_0<\\ol V_0^B$
\f0 \cf0 ; per 
\f1 \cf3 [](#prop2)
\f0 \cf0  and 
\f1 \cf3 [](#eq:eq9)
\f0 \cf0  a 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0  exists that satisfies 
\f1 \cf3 [](#lem3)
\f0 \cf0 . Since viable firms continue even when insolvent (
\f1 \cf3 [](#prop1)
\f0 \cf0 ), investment decisions are anyway efficient.\
Meanwhile, 
\f1 \cf3 [](#prop2)
\f0 \cf0  applies to all non-viable firms; none are priced out of the lending market. With sufficiently differentiated machine product markets, *
\i ex interim
\i0 * decisions are efficient as well.\
The model in [][The model] assumed bankruptcy does not explicitly erode a creditor's right to 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0 . Thus, bankruptcy regulations which neither reduce future project value nor explicitly cut creditors' claims do not impact *
\i ex ante
\i0 * lending {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AFCB83E8-AF6D-4014-95B6-0B993985D50F"}}{\fldrslt decisions.}} As discussed in the [][Introduction], most rules from Chapter 11 meet these criteria. Even super-senior emergency financing is innocuous. As shown in [][Super-senior financing], emergency finance prevents existing creditors from blocking new loans. Nevertheless, interim loans do not alter underlying firm value; initial loan contracts adjust to account for the possibility. Lending conditions and investment decisions remain efficient.\
Yet elevating the value of creditors' outside option simultaneously addresses Problems 1 and 2. Several common law countries---most notably the U.K.---include a form of bankruptcy which does just that: receivership. Receivership applies to a special class of creditor---one which holds a lien on more than just the firm's physical assets. These liens, called floating charges, may be narrowly defined or  co-exist with loans made on secured collateral, but in the broadest sense apply to a firm's entire business operations.\
Setting $q=0$ simulates receivership in [the model][The model]. From [](#lem1), creditor and entrepreneur disagreement imply the creditor supports liquidation. $q=0$ ensures the courts uphold creditor wishes.\
Contracts based on receivership replace a payment with an outcome precisely when that payment is particularly risky. Safer outside options are more valuable, forcing entrepreneurs to shoulder greater financial responsibility in insolvency. Since $\\ol C_1^B=C_1^L$, the creditor always recovers the principal amount of his loan. The creditor makes no losses. The entrepreneur asks to borrow $K_0$ and repay exactly that one period later. The creditor accepts. Every project is funded. *Ex ante* and *ex interim* investment decisions are efficient ([](#prop4)).\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf4 LEMMA\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 In receivership the optimal debt contract is 
\f1 \cf2 $D=\\ul K_0$
\f0 \cf0 . There is no credit-rationing.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr

\f1 \cf1 elem\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 Nevertheless, receivership is not common and its ability to alleviate credit-rationing frequently undermined by regulation. Reformed U.K. insolvency procedures took effect in 2003. The new U.K. law cuts back the rights of creditors secured by floating charge, including that to appoint an administrative receiver. The rational was that receivership the weak protection of the firm's operations and the strong rights allocated to creditors with a floating charge lien caused excessive liquidations. Nevertheless, firm survival and recovery rates in the U.K. compare well to the U.S. Chapter 11. Thus, the strong creditor orientation in formal bankruptcy does not appear to be detrimental tot he restructuring of distressed U.K. firms. Additionally, [][#Franks2005a;] examine 542 small-to-medium-sized financially distressed U.K. firms that are transferred to their bank's workout unit. They report that 60% of sample firms filing for the U.K. receivership code continue to operate as going concerns after bankruptcy. In a sample of U.K. firms filing for administrative receivership, [][#Kaiser1996;] finds that almost half are sold as going concerns. Similarly, [][#Davydenko2008] show that 43% of small U.K. firms that default on their debt are liquidated piecemeal.
\f2 \

\f0 \
\
y regulation. \
In receivership, the creditor secured by floating charge collateral appoints an administrator on his behalf. The administrator has full control of the distressed firm and may operate the firm himself, sell to a third party (or back to the original management) or liquidate its assets piecemeal.\
These conclusions suggest radically altered bankruptcy procedures such as immediate auctions or distributed options may miss the point
\f1 \cf5 [see\\]\\[][#Baird1986,Bebchuk1988,Bebchuk2000,Aghion1992a]
\f0 \cf0 . All focus on rigidly respecting debt's seniority over equity via a legally structured sale or bargaining process. I show, however, that violations to absolute priority are only harmful once expensive reorganisation forces debt forgiveness beyond that which creditors would otherwise swallow given low initial earnings. Since it is hard to see how auction- or option-based reforms are cheaper than traditional bankruptcy---and their inflexible design may cost more to implement---they are probably not the panacea many hoped them to be.\
Far more suitable is the reorganisation law they sought to replace: Chapter 11. I show that any particular bankruptcy regulation that neither implicitly reduces future earnings or explicitly prioritises equity over debt does not constrict lending or distort investment decisions. When it helps quickly resolve reorganisation and doesn't disempower creditors, lending is cheaper and more widespread, investment decisions more efficient.\
Most rules in Chapter 11 meet these criteria: allowing management to remain, equity first right to a restructuring plan, super-senior emergency financing and U.S.-style "cramdown"---judicial imposition of a reorganisation plan despite creditor objection. They cost little to implement, do not categorically prioritise equity over debt and their absence (or the alternative) does not strengthen creditors' bargaining position. They do reduce time spent in reorganisation
\f1 \cf5 [#Elayan2001]
\f0 \cf0 , discourage excessive risk-taking and under-investment
\f1 \cf5 [#Eberhart1993,Gertner1991]
\f0 \cf0  and encourage prompt notification of financial distress
\f1 \cf5 [#{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://29DC4083-0CE0-4ED7-BE6E-2CD56F1D4E42"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 Povel1999]
\f0 \cf0 .}}
\f0 \cf0 \
Notoriously absent from Chapter 11 are several unambiguously harmful regulations that implicitly cost money. Replacing management with court-appointed administrators---as is done in France---expels specialised skills and knowledge administrators probably lack. U.K. and German regulations that insist on administrative oversight burden firms with additional salaries that have priority over debt. British advertising requirements publicise financial distress, causing consumers concerned about warranty validity to shop elsewhere
\f1 \cf5 [#Titman1984]
\f0 \cf0  and employees worried about their jobs to find new ones
\f1 \cf5 [#Berk2010]
\f0 \cf0 .\
Chapter 11 may be the best reorganisation law, but its wider bankruptcy system is always inferior to one without an automatic {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C4878A74-B1C2-4B77-836B-1208C115CC85"}}{\fldrslt stay.}} Automatic stays are not only redundant, but weaken creditors' bargaining position. Insolvent borrowers that should continue offer reasonable workout proposals unless creditors are likely the residual claimants in reorganisation. In the latter case, however, lenders' desire to maximise their own recovery impels action which also maximises the insolvent firm's value. Automatic stays therefore anticipate motives which creditors do not have. Eliminating them makes lenders' returns in bankruptcy less risky; insolvent borrowers impose fewer write-downs during {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9486350E-0AF4-46A3-8CA4-02486B2884DF"}}{\fldrslt workouts.}}}