{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2484
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Italic;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\fnil\fcharset204 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green128\blue64;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Ladies, our papers aren't published that often in "top-four" economics journals. In 2015, the average share of female authors per paper was 15 percent. Only eight percent were majority {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://22481427-845E-467E-95CF-50137ECAA6F1"}}{\fldrslt female-authored.}} Just four percent were written entirely by women. The *
\f1\i Quarterly Journal of Economics
\f0\i0 * did not publish a single exclusively female-authored paper between 2015--2017 (inclusive). In several recent years, *
\f1\i Econometrica
\f0\i0 * and the *
\f1\i Journal of Political Economy
\f0\i0 * have not either.\
These statistics are uncomfortable, but their causes are myriad: lower publishing rates, career choices, motherhood and, possibly, bias. In lab and field experiments women are subject to tougher standards. Their qualifications and ability are underestimated
\f2\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f3\fs28 [#Foschi1996,Grunspan2016,Moss-Racusin2012,Reuben2014]
\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f0\fs28 . Female-authored manu\\\\-scripts are evaluated more critically
\f2\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f3\fs28 [#Goldberg1968,Krawczyk2016,Paludi1983]
\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f0\fs28 ; when collaborating with men, women are given less credit
\f2\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f3\fs28 [#Heilman2005,Sarsons2015]
\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f0\fs28 .\

\f2\fs24 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs28 This paper uses five measures of writing clarity to suggest that women are likewise held to higher standards in peer review. (i) Female-authored articles published in top-four economics journals are better written than similar papers by men. The difference cannot be explained by year, journal, editor, topic, institution, English language ability or by proxying for article quality with citations and accounting for author prominence and seniority. (ii) The gap widens precisely while papers are being reviewed. I compare published articles to their pre-reviewed drafts. Forty percent of the gap originates *
\f1\i during
\f0\i0 * peer review. (iii) Female economists improve their writing; male economists don't. I use a dynamic model of an author's decision-making process to show that tougher editorial standards and/or biased referee assignment are the only explanations consistent with men's and women's diverging choices. A conservative estimate derived from the model suggests higher standards in peer review cause senior female economists to write at least seven percent more clearly than they otherwise {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://579EB32C-1A3B-40BB-B3B2-6E9B2B95D4A0"}}{\fldrslt would.}}\

\f2\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs28 I also document evidence that higher standards confound productivity measurement and their own identification. First, higher standards presumably delay review. To investigate this hypothesis, I estimate gender differences in submit-accept times at *
\f1\i Econometrica
\f0\i0 * and a fifth highly regarded journal, the *
\f1\i Review of Economic Studies
\f0\i0 *. Female-authored papers spend three to six months longer in peer review even after controlling for, among other things, author seniority, motherhood, childbirth, citations and field.\
Second, my data suggest women gradually adapt to higher standards *
\f1\i in
\f0\i0 * peer review by writing more readably *
\f1\i before
\f0\i0 * it. Such behavioural responses to discrimination---or ``feedback effects''---make it difficult to distinguish biased treatment from voluntary choice. More broadly, they emphasise that discrimination is usually observed in (or on the path toward) an equilibrium state. Studies that analyse only one slice of that path must take into account how the general equilibrium would have evolved had discrimination not occurred. Otherwise, they risk underestimating it, misallocating responsibility or even concluding bias against men.\
Higher standards impose a quantity/quality trade-off that plausibly contributes to academia's "Publishing Paradox" and "Leaky Pipeline". Spending more time revising old research means there's less time for new research. Fewer papers results in fewer promotions, possibly driving women into fairer fields. Since there is evidence of this trade-off in a variety of occupations---*
\f1\i e.g.
\f0\i0 *, doctors, real estate agents and airline pilots---higher standards could distort women's productivity, more generally.}