{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red255\green128\blue0;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 [](#p3table12) documents a rise in the readability gap as women publish more articles. [](#p3eqSUP5) is an author-level estimation of the impact publication counts have on men and women's readability; the positive difference observed in [](#p3table13) therefore points to an individual-specific component to this phenomenon.\
An explanation for this rise is "learning-by-doing". That is, the relative payoff from lucid exposition is higher for women. After the first few rounds of peer review, women catch on---either thanks to a gender imbalance in referee's comments on text readability or by making the (un)conscious connection that their papers are reviewed faster when text is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F5A40D53-ACA7-4B66-8BB9-76396D424C65"}}{\fldrslt clearer.}}\
I now investigate two alternative hypotheses---one complement to the "learning-by-doing" explanation and another substitute---but show that neither is empirically responsible.\
After a "learning curve" during the first few rounds of peer review, women figure this out. Possibly this is a direct response to a gender imbalance in referee comments on readability; possibly it is the byproduct of making the conscious or unconscious connection that women's papers are reviewed relatively faster when the text is clearer\
women's papers are reviewed faster when written more clearly.\
Possibly this is a direct response to referee comments on the readability of their papers; possibly it is the byproduct of women making the conscious or unconscious connection that their papers are reviewed faster when written more clearly.\
The previous section provides evidence that women with several publications behind them write clearer papers than those with fewer whereas men do not. [](#p3eqSUP5) is an author-level estimation of the impact publication counts have on men and women's readability. The positive difference in [](#p3table11) indicates that this phenomenon is individual-specific. I have so far implied that "learning-by-doing" is driving the phonomenon\
[](#p3table11) and [](#p3figure4) were based on an author-level analysis of [](#p3eqSUP5) and so suggest individual women write clearer as they publish more papers. So far,I have implied that "learning-by-doing" \
\
I now investigate two alternative hyptheses---one complementary and one substitute---and show that they do not hold.\
As discussed in [][p3authorlevel], readability and female ratio may be nonlinearly related---specifically, evidence suggests the latter is increasing and convex in the former (see [](#fn3) and the Online Appendix). Thus, if at higher publication counts women are more likely to write with other women\
women's rise and men's fall in readability as they publish more papers may be a simple byproduct \
may be the simple byproduct of \

\f1 \cf2 [](#eq:p3eq4)
\f0 \cf0  investigates how female writers evolve as a whole---and specifically questions whether the clearest among them publish more often as a complementary force driving observed readability {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://02AB2AB6-BB14-44D2-A1CE-91C136850868"}}{\fldrslt differences:}}where 
\f1 \cf3 $\\Phi$
\f0 \cf0  is the standard normal cumulative distribution function, 
\f1 \cf3 $\\text\{pub.\}\\ge x\\text\{ times\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  equals one if author 
\f1 \cf3 $i$
\f0 \cf0  has co-authored 
\f1 \cf3 $x$
\f0 \cf0  or more papers in the data, 
\f1 \cf3 $x$
\f0 \cf0  is a positive integer and subscript 1 denotes author 
\f1 \cf3 $i\\text\{'s\}$
\f0 \cf0  first paper. 
\f1 \cf2 [](#p3table8)
\f0 \cf0  displays 
\f1 \cf3 $\\beta_1+\\beta_4$
\f0 \cf0 ---the marginal effect of female authors' first papers' readability scores on the probability of publishing multiple {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://58098D83-7CDF-4E17-A687-F05B011CD7C2"}}{\fldrslt times.}}\

\f1 \cf2 [](#p3table8)
\f0 \cf0  is pretty obvious. The readability of a woman's first paper does not predict how often she will publish. Regardless of the threshold chosen, it has no impact on her eventual productivity and is indistinguishable from zero in all estimates. Several alternative dependant variables, independent variables, functional forms and dataset restrictions were tried. None suggest initially good writers, male or female, publish more frequently than bad ones.}