{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green128\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 If the entrepreneur and lender cannot see eye-to-eye on whether to restructure their debt or liquidate the project, each petitions the court to force the other to accept his desired result---reorganisation or compulsory liquidation. A judge adjudicates.\
Reorganisation---administration in the U.K.---is a supervised version of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F2C9C334-FA83-4F8D-B0EC-C2F5B7304DAA"}}{\fldrslt continuation.}} The entrepreneur formulates a restructuring plan; a court-appointed administrator approves and oversees its implementation.\
As discussed in the introduction, reorganisation is expensive. Legal and accounting fees, lost customers, suppliers and employees, added bureaucracy and even theft from fraudulent administrators add up. The upshot is delayed production, asset depreciation and lower profits. $Y\\in(0,1)$ captures this. It measures the fraction of project value reorganisation wastes. What's left is only\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$V_2^R=X_1+(1-Y)\\l(X_2+K_2\\r).$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 Compulsory liquidation is the second option. In theory, compulsory liquidation is more transparent, straightforward and faster than reorganisation. Service and employment contracts are immediately voided and business operations cease. Secured creditors repossess their liens; a court-appointed administrator auctions off remaining assets and distributes the proceeds to unsecured {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FAA7EFA3-17AC-4302-ABE3-277923A8FDC0"}}{\fldrslt creditors.}} Any excess is settled on equity.\
Winding up a business is less ambiguous than rescuing it---giving corruption, bureaucracy and legal fees less scope to eat away a firm's eventual liquidation value. And since that value is independent of unrealised future earnings, bankruptcy's impact on business reputation is especially irrelevant. Compulsory liquidation, therefore, probably wastes a smaller fraction of a firm's time 1 liquidation value than reorganisation wastes of its time 2 continuation {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8A887958-4014-4D39-8E6F-3C7CB0017452"}}{\fldrslt value.}}\
To incorporate this idea without adding unnecessary complexity, I assume compulsory liquidation incurs no added cost and is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9AD3D166-2783-4317-AF4F-F2848B9466D6"}}{\fldrslt instantaneous.}} Gross returns are therefore identical to those in voluntary liquidation.\
Whether reorganised or liquidated, the creditor is no longer guaranteed the full face value of his loan. Given 
\f1 \cf2 $X_1<D$
\f0 \cf0 , neither 
\f1 \cf2 $V_1^L$
\f0 \cf0  nor 
\f1 \cf2 $V_2^R$
\f0 \cf0  is necessarily large enough to cover 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0 . When it isn't, the creditor takes home the entirety of the project's gross value; otherwise, he earns 
\f1 \cf2 $D$
\f0 \cf0 . His gross returns in liquidation and reorganisation are, respectively\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 $$C_1^L=\\min\\\{D,V_1^L\\\}\\eqOr C_2^R=\\min\\\{D,V_2^R\\\}.$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 As before, the entrepreneur keeps whatever remains: 
\f1 \cf2 $E_1^L=V_1^L-C_1^L$
\f0 \cf0  if the project is liquidated and 
\f1 \cf2 $E_2^R=V_2^R-C_2^R$
\f0 \cf0  if it's reorganised.}