{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset204 PTMono-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Regular;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red16\green128\blue214;\red255\green128\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\csgenericrgb\c6100\c50000\c84000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;
}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 [](#table3)
\f1 \cf0  displays each gender's average per sentence number of characters, words, syllables, polysyllabic words and difficult words. Women write shorter, simpler sentences---they contain fewer characters, fewer syllables, fewer words and fewer "hard" words. Differences are highly statistically significant.
\f0\fs18 \cf3 \

\fs28 \cf2 [](#table4)
\f1 \cf0  presents coefficients from an ordinary least squares (OLS) regression of the ratio of female co-authors on the five readability scores. To account for error correlation by editorial policy, observations are grouped by journal editor/editorial board and standard errors are adjusted {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1B591C35-3039-4310-860B-24B0547CD330"}}{\fldrslt accordingly.}}\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf3 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs18 <!--\\input\{$HOME/Dropbox/Readability/draft/tex/generated/table3\}-->
\f1\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 Column (1) controls for journal and editor: abstracts written only by women score about one point higher on the Flesch Reading Ease scale; according to the four grade-level measures, they take 1--6 fewer months of schooling to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8DD3F2A9-BC3D-48EE-9C51-FE5BC3E9F939"}}{\fldrslt understand.}} Percentage-wise, women write 1--2 percent better than {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://647A2BD3-784C-49BF-9060-546F1D012951"}}{\fldrslt men.}}\
Column (2) includes 63 year dummies; column (3) adds another 182 journal and year interaction dummies; columns (4) and (5) introduce 64 institution effects, quality controls---citation count and 30 
\f0 \cf4 $\\text\{max. \}T_j$
\f1 \cf0  effects (maximum co-author lifetime publication count for paper 
\f0 \cf4 $j$
\f1 \cf0 )---and a dummy variable capturing English {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F423B0C8-0349-4DC3-875B-61BAFDBC05D0"}}{\fldrslt fluency.}} Coefficients and standard errors in columns (2)--(5) are very similar to those in column (1).
\f0\fs18 \cf3 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf0 The coefficients on the journal dummies in (2) are presented in 
\f0 \cf2 [][AppendixArticleMale].
\f1 \cf0  They compare *
\i AER
\i0 *'s readability to the readability of *
\i Econometrica
\i0 *, *
\i JPE
\i0 * and *
\i QJE
\i0 *, providing a useful check on the reliability of readability formulas in the context of economic writing. As intuitively expected, all five scores agree that *
\i Econometrica
\i0 * is harder to read; four out of five scores suggest *
\i JPE
\i0 * is, too, while *
\i QJE
\i0 * is easier.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf3 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs18 <!--\\input\{$HOME/Dropbox/Readability/draft/tex/generated/table4\}-->
\f1\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 Columns (6) and (7) control for primary *
\i JEL
\i0 * classification. (6) includes 20 fixed effects for primary *
\i JEL
\i0 * categories; (7) includes 718 effects for tertiary categories. Due to small sample sizes, (7) includes 561 articles from *
\i AER Papers & {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AC1DBA3C-C32C-4DFF-8FB1-CEB37DDA318D"}}{\fldrslt Proceedings
\i0 *.}}
\i0  Since only post-1990 *
\i JEL
\i0 * classifications are used, estimates in both columns exclude over 40 percent of the data. Nevertheless, coefficients and standard errors are roughly equivalent, suggesting the readability gap is largely independent of sub-field. 
\f2\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f0\fs28 [][AppendixJEL]
\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs28  explores this hypothesis in more detail. Conditional on the other explanatory variables, however, there is very little evidence that the gender readability gap is related to sub-fields.}