{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green128\blue64;\red255\green128\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;
\csgenericrgb\c50196\c0\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Bankruptcy isn't the only option. Creditors and entrepreneurs can always deal with insolvency on their own. One scenario involves a mutual decision to wind-up business operations. In another, both parties agree to a workout.\
Monetary or in-kind transfers between borrower and lender are common components of workout agreements; in liquidation, however, they are usually forbidden. Paying a director to voluntarily wind up his insolvent firm qualifies as a "preference payment"---*
\i i.e.
\i0 *, a payment that "has the effect of putting [its recipient] into a position which, in the event of the company going into insolvent liquidation, will be better than the position he would have been in if that thing had not been done"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://70FCC363-6911-4F98-9571-7E0A4DEFB748"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 [\\]\\[\'a7239 (4)(b)][#GreatBritain1986]
\f0 \cf0 .}} Preference payments are not allowed in either the U.S. or the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://DACEBC7B-6A7E-48EF-B891-0C6990FA171D"}}{\fldrslt U.K.}}\
Voluntarily liquidating an insolvent firm differs very little from compulsory liquidation. The process is overseen by a third-party who acts in the creditors' interests. One of his tasks is to inspect the firm's financial records and recover preference payments---which I assume he does efficiently and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AC69C33B-E32A-4C3F-87B9-EA22164FDE48"}}{\fldrslt accurately.}} Without preference payments, neither side has the power to "bribe" the other to wind up operations; combined with the earlier assumption that liquidation does not erode project value, the process and proceeds are identical to those in compulsory liquidation.\
In a workout, the bankrupt debtor negotiates a revised debt contract with his creditors outside the judicial system. Workouts, when allowed, follow a similar script. In the U.S., managers propose a plan to restructure the debt; creditors then vote on it. If unanimously accepted, the plan is implemented without requiring court {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8645F815-5EC0-478C-A2A3-8DC16524E22A"}}{\fldrslt intervention.}} Time spent in bankruptcy is reduced or eliminated, making them cheaper and less stressful than formal reorganisation
\f1 \cf2 [#McConnell1991]
\f0 \cf0 . I assume they are costless.\
The debt renegotiation game is very simple; I assume the entrepreneur makes a take-it-or-leave-it offer to replace the original debt 
\f1 \cf3 $D$
\f0 \cf0  due at time 1 with a new one 
\f1 \cf3 $\\wt D$
\f0 \cf0  due at time 2. If accepted, projects operate another period; gross earnings are identical to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://688F7DA0-2AA0-4EB8-947F-9A2968A843FA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf3 $V_2^C$
\f0 \cf0 .}} Under these circumstances, the entrepreneur offers the smallest 
\f1 \cf3 $\\wt D$
\f0 \cf0  the creditor will accept: one which equates the latter's expected earnings in a workout, 
\f1 \cf3 $\\ol C_1^W$
\f0 \cf0 , with those of his outside option---bankruptcy (
\f1 \cf4 [](#lem2)
\f0 \cf0 ).\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sa240\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf5 LEMMA\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 In a workout, the entrepreneur offers the creditor the smallest 
\f1 \cf3 $\\wt D$
\f0 \cf0  such that 
\f1 \cf3 $\\ol C_1^B=\\ol C_1^W$
\f0 \cf0 . Such a 
\f1 \cf3 $\\wt D$
\f0 \cf0  exists if and only if 
\f1 \cf3 $\\,\\ol C_1^B\\le\\ol V_1^C$
\f0 \cf0 .\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li283\pardirnatural\qr

\f1 \cf6 elem\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 Assuming his proposal is accepted, the entrepreneur's expected earnings from a workout are\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf3 $$\\ol E_1^W=\\ol V_1^C-\\ol C_1^B.$$\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0  Let 
\f1 \cf3 $\\ol E_1^C$
\f0 \cf0  be the time 1 expected value of 
\f1 \cf3 $E_2^C$
\f0 \cf0 . Since 
\f1 \cf3 $\\ol C_1^B$
\f0 \cf0  is only ever at most 
\f1 \cf3 $D$
\f0 \cf0 , 
\f1 \cf3 $\\ol E_1^C\\le\\ol E_1^W$
\f0 \cf0  for values of 
\f1 \cf3 $X_1$
\f0 \cf0  within a sufficiently small neighbourhood of 
\f1 \cf3 $D$
\f0 \cf0 . The upshot? Entrepreneurs are better off in a workout than they would be if continuing while solvent---armed with the threat of bankruptcy, they demand revised terms of credit at lenders' {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://31B2B65F-B3D5-4A35-AA04-F5987B72B5D8"}}{\fldrslt expense.}}}