{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset204 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue64;\red252\green226\blue33;
\red255\green128\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;\cssrgb\c99200\c89800\c16100;
\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 As discussed in 
\f1 \cf2 [][Data]
\f0 \cf0 , drafts were collected from NBER Technical and Working Paper Series. NBER series were used as the exclusive data source for two reasons. First, approximately one-fifth of articles in the data were originally part of an NBER series, making it the largest single source of draft papers. Second, NBER persistently releases its working papers two to three years before publication (mean 2.1 years)---precisely the length of time spent in peer review
\f1 \cf3 [#Ellison2002a,Goldberg2015]
\f0 \cf0 .\
Does peer review alter abstracts? Prior comparisons of medical journal articles published in the *British Medical Journal* suggest yes---although not a lot. [#Hopewell2014;] investigated 93 randomised trials assessing healthcare interventions in human participants published in *BMC*-series medical journals in 2012. A comparison between the original and final submitted manuscript suggested that abstracts were altered in peer review in about 16 percent of all papers, with referees generally asking authors to tone down their conclusions. [#Hayden2008;] found no significant change in the Flesch Reading Ease score during peer review itself (submission vs. acceptance), but a significant positive effect from post-acceptance editing by the journal editor and a copy-editor.\
Compared to economics journals, however, medical journals ask for fewer revisions[#Ellison2002a,Hayden2008] and enjoy substantially shorter review times[see, *e.g.*,\\]\\[][#Trauma2015], suggesting pre-acceptance readability edits are less common. Indeed, as is shown in [](#table6), peer review alters manuscripts by quite a lot.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 [](#table6)
\f0 \cf0  compares textual characteristics between versions. Means in the first three columns are of majority male-authored papers (female ratio strictly below 50 percent); the final three columns are majority female-authored papers (female ratio at or above 50 percent).\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs18 \cf4 <!--\\input\{$HOME/Dropbox/Readability/draft/tex/generated/table6\}-->\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Abstracts are considerably altered during peer review. 
\f1 \cf2 [](#table6)
\f0 \cf0 's first panel displays raw counts. Draft abstracts are longer---more characters, words and sentences---and denser---more syllables, polysyllabic words and difficult words. The biggest changes are made to female-authored papers: figures in column six are 20--30 percent higher (in absolute value) than those in column three.\
Peer review's impact on readability, however, is unclear. Readability scores are weighted averages of the ratios of (i) total word or "hard" word to sentence count and (ii) hard word to word count. Between working paper and published versions, (i) decreases and (ii) increases {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://63ED860A-5845-4346-8E8D-70891F680C1C"}}{\fldrslt (
\f1 \cf2 [](#table6)
\f0 \cf0 , second panel).}} (i) Peer review shortens sentences and reduces hard words per sentence: in male-authored papers, sentences are 5 percent shorter and contain 26 percent fewer polysyllabic words; in female-authored papers, they are 7 percent shorter and contain 30 percent fewer polysyllabic words. (ii) As a fraction of total word count, however, syllables, polysyllabic words and difficult words rise. To wit, hard word counts and total word count decline, but the latter by proportionately more; their ratios increase: between 1--3 percent for men and 1--2 percent for women.\
According to the majority of scores, peer review improves readability (
\f1 \cf2 [](#table6)
\f0 \cf0 , third panel), a finding consistent with similar investigations at medical journals{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C0BB6FDB-8B84-4BDD-BE0B-6EB6E3BB57CE"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf3 [#Biddle1996,Hayden2008,Roberts1994]
\f0 \cf0 .}} Thanks to fewer hard words per sentence, SMOG scores are higher in published articles regardless of gender (see 
\f1 \cf2 [](#table2)
\f0 \cf0 ). In female-authored papers, the net effect for remaining scores is similarly positive. In male-authored papers, however, only the Gunning Fog and Flesch-Kincaid scores indicate a positive net effect; for the Flesch Reading Ease and Dale-Chall scores, it's negative. In any case, women's papers endure comparatively greater cuts in hard words relative to total words and larger falls in words per sentence; their abstracts always become more readable during peer review than do those by men.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs18 \cf4 <!--\\input\{$HOME/Dropbox/Readability/draft/tex/fixed/figure2\}-->
\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 [](#figure2)
\f0 \cf0  reiterates women's readability gains. It plots draft Dale-Chall scores (
\f1 \cf5 $x$
\f0 \cf0 -axis) against abstracts' published scores (
\f1 \cf5 $y$
\f0 \cf0  axis) for men (blue) and women (pink). The grey, dashed line is a 45 degree line through the origin. As might be expected, poorly written draft abstracts emerge more readable in the published version (above the 45 degree line); abstracts that were already well written come out slightly less so (below the 45 degree line). Regardless, female-authored published papers are again more readable than they were as working papers relative to male-authored papers---further evidence that women's papers are more heavily scrutinised during peer {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://88FB2F86-415D-44D9-8F72-B46A7321FFC8"}}{\fldrslt review.}}}