{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green128\blue64;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c50196\c25098;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 In 1986 the U.K. introduced administration: bankruptcy procedures aimed at rehabilitating insolvent {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://582552AA-E390-47FA-9796-1AFB51FF4904"}}{\fldrslt debtors.}} Called reorganisation elsewhere and analogous to U.S. Chapter 11, administration answered political concern that too many financially distressed firms were unnecessarily liquidated---or left to fail---despite a reasonable chance of survival
\f1 \cf2 [#Cork1982]
\f0 \cf0 . The "rescue culture" it fostered was thought to maximise profits, prevent job loss and uphold creditors' long-term interests.\
In a comprehensive debt financing model, I show rescue culture neither maximises profits nor prevents job loss. Instead, it obstructs firm creation in the first place or supplants otherwise certain survival with upfront investment choices that make premature liquidation not just highly likely in financial distress but virtually guaranteed should the firm remain solvent. The only goal rescue culture does serve is creditors' long-term interests---by introducing a profitable niche lending market in an otherwise zero-profit industry.\
My starting point is that administration is time-consuming, arduous and expensive. United Airlines spent $250 million on legal and professional services related to its reorganisation; WorldCom topped out at $620 million
\f1 \cf2 [#Berk2009]
\f0 \cf0 . In New York, procedures last three years
\f1 \cf2 [#Weiss1990]
\f0 \cf0  and fees eat up 2--4 percent of firm value
\f1 \cf2 [#LoPucki2004,Warner1977,Weiss1990]
\f0 \cf0 . Customers are reticent to buy goods
\f1 \cf2 [#Titman1984]
\f0 \cf0 , suppliers hesitate to provide inventory and employees leave
\f1 \cf2 [#Berk2010]
\f0 \cf0 . Hungarian trustees delay liquidation
\f1 \cf2 [#Franks2013]
\f0 \cf0 ; their counterparts in Russia embezzle cash
\f1 \cf2 [#Lambert-Mogiliansky2007]
\f0 \cf0 .\
These costs matter: they contribute to expensive debt, delayed liquidation, suboptimal investment and credit rationing. Limited liability makes creditors disproportionately responsible for reorganisation's impact on future earnings. Insolvent borrowers exploit the imbalance by demanding excessive debt write-downs in obvious violation to absolute priority. This cuts creditor earnings, discourages voluntary liquidation and sometimes renders lending {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://54CD82EF-8DF6-4FCA-AA1D-B6FB2B56221F"}}{\fldrslt unprofitable.}}\
Insolvent firms that ought to continue always do---in settlements known as {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4A76D42F-AD7F-496C-AB30-C6DFEE42E7EE"}}{\fldrslt workouts.}} Firms with high expected earnings relative to upfront investment have the most to gain from a workout. So do their creditors. Reorganisation is expensive and probable: not only will equity never willingly liquidate, but if put to a judge she will likely agree. Bankruptcy has real consequences and creditors a real desire to avoid it; they quickly acquiesce to intemperate write-{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C42125BD-7A04-4A2D-A72D-077007BCF2CB"}}{\fldrslt downs.}}\
Potential borrowers lose. Workouts avoid wasteful reliance on an ineffective bankruptcy regime but lender write-downs are still proportional to the cost of that regime. As is often the case, however, it is firms' pre-borrowing selves and solvent peers who really pay the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://89D7DCF0-BA00-45A4-8E5F-2FACE0D90028"}}{\fldrslt cost.}} For some, credit is merely more expensive. For others, it is rationed or obtained only by inducing premature {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7E1E5911-3074-48D4-9A14-09FB4D9A6248"}}{\fldrslt liquidation.}} Higher interest rates encourage more workouts so creditors do not lend money no matter how much borrowers are willing to pay. To surmount this, firms over-invest in physical or tradable intangible assets to increase  both judicial likelihood of liquidation and a desire to voluntarily do so themselves.\
Insolvent firms that ought to liquidate only sometimes do but nevertheless face fewer upfront repercussions in the lending {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5157ACD2-D601-40D5-861C-1D7011B9C01F"}}{\fldrslt market.}} Although they frequently continue when they shouldn't and intermittently even file for bankruptcy, their shorter expected lifespans mean equity usually forgo both to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FD745A6F-4277-4343-B5DF-A992B21CFA46"}}{\fldrslt liquidate.}} From the creditor's perspective, workouts (and bankruptcy) are risker; returns are lower. They clearly prefer lending to borrowers who want them less often.\
In fact---and despite a perfectly competitive credit market---lending to firms most prone to bankruptcy can actually be profitable. High interest rates encourage bankruptcy, sure, but when they are very high (and reorganisation very costly) it's no better than shutting down; entrepreneurs are indifferent so creditors liquidate\'85while pocketing all of the firm's initial earnings. If creditors only recuperate their original investment when liquidation is guaranteed,  an exorbitant rate achieves this and makes them money in the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://48642D58-872C-46F2-9861-F0A4C981F308"}}{\fldrslt process.}}\
These conclusions suggest radically altered bankruptcy procedures such as immediate auctions or distributed options may miss the point
\f1 \cf2 [see\\]\\[][#Baird1986,Bebchuk1988,Bebchuk2000,Aghion1992a]
\f0 \cf0 . All focus on rigidly respecting debt's seniority over equity via a legally structured sale or bargaining process. I show, however, that violations to absolute priority are only harmful once expensive reorganisation forces debt forgiveness beyond that which creditors would otherwise swallow given low initial earnings. Since it is hard to see how auction- or option-based reforms are cheaper than traditional bankruptcy---and their inflexible design may cost more to implement---they are probably not the panacea many hoped them to be.\
Far more suitable is the reorganisation law they sought to replace: Chapter 11. I show that any particular bankruptcy regulation that neither implicitly reduces future earnings or explicitly prioritises equity over debt does not constrict lending or distort investment decisions. When it helps quickly resolve reorganisation and doesn't disempower creditors, lending is cheaper and more widespread, investment decisions more efficient.\
Most rules in Chapter 11 meet these criteria: allowing management to remain, equity first right to a restructuring plan, super-senior emergency financing and U.S.-style "cramdown"---judicial imposition of a reorganisation plan despite creditor objection. They cost little to implement, do not categorically prioritise equity over debt and their absence (or the alternative) does not strengthen creditors' bargaining position. They do reduce time spent in reorganisation
\f1 \cf2 [#Elayan2001]
\f0 \cf0 , discourage excessive risk-taking and under-investment
\f1 \cf2 [#Eberhart1993,Gertner1991]
\f0 \cf0  and encourage prompt notification of financial distress
\f1 \cf2 [#{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E50A464D-831D-4819-BD82-63CE849658E8"}}{\fldrslt Povel1999]
\f0 \cf0 .}}
\f0 \cf0 \
Notoriously absent from Chapter 11 are several unambiguously harmful regulations that implicitly cost money. Replacing management with court-appointed administrators---as is done in France---expels specialised skills administrators probably lack. U.K. and German regulations that insist on administrative oversight burden firms with additional salaries that have priority over debt. British advertising requirements publicise financial distress, causing consumers concerned about warranty validity to shop elsewhere
\f1 \cf2 [#Titman1984]
\f0 \cf0  and employees worried about their jobs to find new ones
\f1 \cf2 [#Berk2010]
\f0 \cf0 .\
Chapter 11 may be the best reorganisation law, but its wider bankruptcy system is always inferior to one without an automatic {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A6A3601D-DDF4-45B1-B174-5DA3AEA04380"}}{\fldrslt stay.}} Automatic stays are not only redundant, but weaken creditors' bargaining position. Insolvent borrowers that should continue offer reasonable workout proposals unless creditors are likely the residual claimants in reorganisation. In the latter case, however, lenders' desire to maximise their own recovery impels action that also maximises the insolvent firm's value. Automatic stays therefore anticipate motives that creditors do not have. Eliminating them makes lenders' returns in bankruptcy less risky; insolvent borrowers impose fewer write-downs during workouts.\
If the market for equity finance were as competitive as traditional lending is theorised to be, credit-constrained borrowers could turn to family and friends, initial public offerings or angel investors. But not everyone is blessed with wealthy kin, issuing public stock is just not done by tiny enterprises and illiquid venture capital markets favour entrepreneurs with whom investors share social networks and other superficial similarities
\f1 \cf2 [#Hochberg2007,Bottazzi2011,{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B5EA0A64-503E-44B5-97FE-43A016348B19"}}{\fldrslt Verheul2001]
\f0 \cf0 .}}
\f0 \cf0  Thus, eliminating automatic stays---by permitting floating charge liens---is the most straightforward antidote to bankruptcy's unpleasant side {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B8D71F35-73FA-4705-BF8C-3F533A863E61"}}{\fldrslt effects.}} Despite claims by the
\f1 \cf2 [#Cork1982;]
\f0 \cf0 , lenders are not prone to asset grabbing and firms are not left to fail
\f1 \cf2 [#Franks2005a]
\f0 \cf0 . Distressed British companies secured by floating charges were less likely liquidated than their counterparts in countries more committed to their survival
\f1 \cf2 [#Davydenko2008]
\f0 \cf0 . Bankruptcies involving floating charges keep firms as going concerns far more frequently than reorganisation---and cost significantly less to implement
\f1 \cf2 [#Djankov2008]
\f0 \cf0 .\
Yet floating charges are no longer part of British bankruptcy law. The Insolvency Act 1986 weakened them; the Enterprise Act 2002 removed them. Rescue culture won. Paradoxically at the expense of its purported aim: "to recognise that the effects of insolvency are not limited to the private interests of the insolvent, his family, creditors or directors, shareholders and employees, but that other interests of society or other groups in society are vitally affected\'85and to ensure that these public interests are recognised and secured"
\f1 \cf2 [\\]\\[\'a7198(i)][#Cork1982]
\f0 \cf0 .}