{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 PTMono-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 PTSerif-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red255\green128\blue0;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://79982E5F-D193-46F0-8ED3-BFE9FD458702"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 [](#p3table3)}}
\f1\fs28 displays each gender's average per sentence number of characters, words, syllables, polysyllabic words and difficult {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://81F6F4E9-8C9F-4D17-8B3D-798D226C3161"}}{\fldrslt words.}} By all measures, women write shorter, simpler sentences---they contain fewer characters, fewer syllables, fewer words and fewer "hard" words. Differences are highly significant.\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5BDA30DD-F0E0-494C-ADF9-BE1F37D6A528"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3table4)}}presents coefficients from an ordinary least squares regression of ratio of female co-authors on the five readability scores. To account for error correlation by editorial policy, observations are grouped by journal editor/editorial board and standard errors are adjusted {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B57F4E2C-E2AD-4332-AE82-04159F9355FD"}}{\fldrslt accordingly.}}\
Column (1) controls for journal: abstracts written only by women score about one point higher on the Flesch Reading Ease scale; according to the four grade-level measures, they take 1--6 fewer months of schooling to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://36BBED87-9A41-4BCF-B1A0-DADA643AAAA2"}}{\fldrslt understand.}} Percentage-wise, women write between 1--3 percent better than {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7D90F35B-7D3E-44EE-9B16-AAFCE1930935"}}{\fldrslt men.}}\
Column (2) includes 63 year dummies; column (3) adds another 182 journal and year interaction dummies; column (4) introduces the 98 institution dummies. Controlling for time and institution has little effect. Coefficients and standard errors are very similar to those in the first column.\
The coefficients on the journal dummies in (2) are presented in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://914712EB-8BEA-4E4C-82FF-3109715BD6F2"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3table5).}}They contrast the readability of the *
\i American Economic Review
\i0 * with *
\i Econometrica
\i0 *, *
\i JPE
\i0 * and *
\i QJE
\i0 *, providing a useful check on the reliability of readability formulas in the context of economic writing. As intuitively anticipated, all five scores agree that *
\i Econometrica
\i0 * is harder to read; the Flesch Reading Ease, Flesch-Kincaid, Gunning Fog and SMOG scores suggest the *
\i JPE
\i0 * is too; according to the Flesch Reading Ease, Gunning Fog, SMOG and Dale-Chall scores, *
\i QJE
\i0 * is easier.\
Column (5) controls for primary *
\i JEL
\i0 * classification. Since only post-1990 *
\i JEL
\i0 * classifications are used, estimates in (5) exclude roughly 40 percent of the data. Nevertheless, coefficients are roughly equivalent---with the exception of the Flesch Reading Ease score which halves and is no longer significant at the 10-percent level.\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://ED3FED16-F0A0-4F1D-B01B-8172C28D597D"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3figure4)}}displays the results from an ordinary least squares regression on the Dale-Chall score; regressors are: (i) ratio of female co-authors; (ii) dummies for each primary *
\i JEL
\i0 * code, (iii) interactions from (i) and (ii) and (iv) controls for journal, year, institution and editorial {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7D342DB8-6C66-4446-B9E8-2C2AC35809DC"}}{\fldrslt board.}} Due to small sample sizes---particularly of female authors---
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3figure4)
\f1 \cf0  includes 549 articles from *
\i AER Papers & {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0932C0E0-76F7-46B2-BB10-487C2D0075DD"}}{\fldrslt Proceedings
\i0 *.}}
\i0 \
The pink vertical line in the left-hand graph is the mean marginal effect of the ratio of female co-authors: in line with estimates from 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3table4)
\f1 \cf0 , female-authored papers require about six fewer weeks of schooling to understand and the estimate is highly significant (standard error 0.04). Points on the graph are marginal effects of the ratio of female co-authors across *
\i JEL
\i0 * classification; bars represent 90 percent confidence intervals (standard errors clustered by editorial board). Women ear higher marks for readability in 12 out of 15 categories; but only three are significant on their own: Q (Agricultural and Natural Resource Economics; Environmental and Ecological Economics), N (Economic History), and J (Labour Economics). In no field do men write significantly better than women.\

\f0 \cf2 [](#p3table4)
\f1 \cf0 's right-hand graph displays coefficients on the interactions between ratio of female co-authors and each *
\i JEL
\i0 * code. Q and N are significantly above the mean; O (Economic Development, Innovation, Technological Change, and Growth) and H (Public Economics) are significantly below it. The effect of ratio of female co-authors in the other categories does not differ from the mean effect.\
In general, sample sizes are small and estimates are are highly imprecise---only Labour Economics and Microeconomics contain more than 100 papers written only by women; the others average 35. Nevertheless, 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3figure4)
\f1 \cf0  suggests the gender gap in readability is not being driven by an outlier field.\

\f0 \cf2 [](#p3figure4)
\f1 \cf0  also suggests that more women in a field is not necessarily an antidote to gender differences in readability. Economic history has one of the highest concentrations of female-authored papers; Agriculture/Environment one of the lowest; Labour Economics falls between the two. Admittedly, Economic History papers are still overwhelmingly---as in 74 percent---penned just by men. But given the readability gap is present in subfields with both above- and below-average rates of sole female authorship, women may need to be better writers even where more of them publish.\
To investigate the gender readability gap at the author-level, I disaggregated the data by duplicating each article 
\f0 \cf3 $n_j$
\f1 \cf0  times, where 
\f0 \cf3 $n_j$
\f1 \cf0  is article 
\f0 \cf3 $j$
\f1 \cf0 's number of co-authors, assigned observation 
\f0 \cf3 $j_k\\in\\\{1,\\ldots,n_j\\\}$
\f1 \cf0  article 
\f0 \cf3 $j$
\f1 \cf0 's 
\f0 \cf3 $k\\text\{th\}$ 
\f1 \cf0 author and estimated {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9714AF40-2DEC-483F-8F2D-0C287BAF1702"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3eqSUP6):}}where 
\f0 \cf3 $\\text\{score\}_\{j_\{it\}\}^s$
\f1 \cf0  is readability score 
\f0 \cf3 $s$
\f1 \cf0  for article 
\f0 \cf3 $j$
\f1 \cf0 ---the article corresponding to author 
\f0 \cf3 $i$
\f1 \cf0 's 
\f0 \cf3 $t$
\f1 \cf0 th publication. Gender enters twice via the binary variable 
\f0 \cf3 $\\text\{male author\}_i$
\f1 \cf0  and 
\f0 \cf3 $\\text\{ratio of female co-authors\}_\{j_\{it\}\}$
\f1 \cf0  to account for author 
\f0 \cf3 $i$
\f1 \cf0 's sex (zero for women, one for men) as well as the sex of his co-authors, respectively. 
\f0 \cf3 $\\text\{No. co-authors\}_\{j_\{it\}\}$
\f1 \cf0  is article 
\f0 \cf3 $j$
\f1 \cf0 's total number of co-authors and controls for author 
\f0 \cf3 $i$
\f1 \cf0 's proportional contribution to his 
\f0 \cf3 $t$
\f1 \cf0 th paper. $\\alpha_i$ are author-specific effects, 
\f0 \cf3 $\\vect X_\{j_\{it\}\}$
\f1 \cf0  is a vector of editor, journal, year and institution dummies and $\\varepsilon_\{j_\{it\}\}$ is an i\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7A58B2E8-F21D-48AF-9F75-1DE80FB8C6F5"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf2 [](#p3table6)}}displays results. The first panel estimates [](#p3eqSUP6) using a Thanks to short panels---again, particularly for women---the sample includes 549 articles from *
\i AER Papers & Proceedings
\i0 * (see 
\f0 \cf2 [](#fn1)
\f1 \cf0 ). To account for duplicated observations, the regression is weighted by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1CF7B5F8-EB44-43AC-A1A2-44B538E88890"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0 \cf3 $1/n_j$
\f1 \cf0 .}} Standard errors adjusted for two-way clustering at the editorial board and author levels.}