{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset204 PTSerif-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset204 PTMono-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red252\green226\blue33;\red255\green128\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;\cssrgb\c99200\c89800\c16100;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c50196\c0;
}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 In this section, I conduct a primitive surname analysis to determine whether female economists are more (or less) likely to speak English {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9852FDEC-8C83-430B-AB6A-227778C27801"}}{\fldrslt natively.}} To proxy for native language, I construct a binary variable equal to one if an author's last name is shared with at least 100, 1,000, *
\i etc.
\i0 * people in the U.S., according to the 2000 Census. Given historical immigration to the U.S., I supplement the analysis with an analogous indicator based on popular Scottish surnames during 1975--2015 (shared by 10 or more people); data are from the National Records of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CCF8FEC7-8479-4BD7-B639-4C221C915DCF"}}{\fldrslt Scotland.}}\

\f1 \cf2 [](#tableA1)
\f0 \cf0  displays correlations between the various surname popularity variables. Note the substantial overlap between Scottish and U.S. surnames shared by 1,000--100,000 people.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1\fs18 \cf3 <!--\\input\{$HOME/Dropbox/Readability/draft/tables/tex/tableA1\}-->
\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf2 [](#tableA2)
\f0 \cf0  displays coefficients on 
\f1 \cf4 $\\text\{male\}_i$
\f0 \cf0  from a probit regression with the surname indicators as dependant variables. In the first column, male authors are slightly more likely to have popular U.S. and Scottish last names, although figures are statistically significant for very popular American surnames, only. 
\f1 \cf2 [](#tableA2)
\f0 \cf0 \\'s second column includes fixed effects for the first year in which an author published in the data. Year effects are meant to control for changes in surname popularity over time---*
\i e.g.
\i0 *, due to immigration---that might be correlated with authors' gender. Indeed, their inclusion eliminates gender's impact; column two suggests men and women are equally likely to be native-English speakers.\
\pard\tx706\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa240\pardirnatural\qc

\f1\fs18 \cf3 <!--\\input\{$HOME/Dropbox/Readability/draft/tables/tex/tableA2\}-->\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\sa200\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 <!--\\clearpage-->}